Spirit Vale is the first raid wing of the Forsaken Thicket raid. While searching for a squad of missing Pact scouts in an area north of the jungle, players will confront the Vale Guardian, Gorseval the Multifarious, and Sabetha the Saboteur in three separate encounters.

Vale Divisions
The first encounter players will face is the group of three distinctly colored Vale Guardian Divisions (unless Vale Guardian has already been defeated). The order of the three colored guardians are randomized each run. Each of the divisions is constantly surrounded by Magic Aura, indicated by the very large red aoe circles surrounding them. Players will be dealt pulsing damage every few seconds while standing within the circle, depending on the player's health. It is recommended to fight only one at a time because the pulsing damage from each division stacks (compounding their damage), but it is possible to win against multiple divisions with sufficient coordination. Once a player steps within the aura, the division will start moving towards them.

A Bullet Storm will also be present while fighting against the Vale Divisions. Light blue balls will spawn around the outer edges and slowly move towards a player. Players that touch one of these balls will be dealt a moderate amount of damage. These balls only travel in a straight line, so can be easily side stepped. Once each division's health has been depleted they will become immune to further damage and their defiance bar will become unlocked, which can only be depleted using crowd control skills. When the bar is broken the division will be defeated.

Each Vale Guardian Division has at most two special mechanics, as listed in the following section.
Red Guardian

Seekers.
The Red Guardian has extremely high toughness, rendering damage other than Condition Damage ineffective to the point of dealing single-digit damage.

Special Mechanic - Summon Seekers
The Red Guardian will summon two red orbs called seekers every 15 seconds. Seekers will last 20 seconds before they disappear. When they spawn, they will slowly gravitate toward a random player and may change targets while en route. All players standing within a seeker's aoe will be dealt high damage continuously.

Seekers have high health, making it extremely difficult and impractical to attempt to kill them before they disappear. Instead, it is suggested that players make use of knockbacks and pulls to keep them away, as well as effects such as chilled, cripple, or immobilize to impede their advance. Players using knockbacks or pulls should take care to not bring the Seekers towards other players.
Green Guardian

Unstable Magic Spike.
Special Mechanic - Unstable Magic Spike (Green Guardian)
The Green Guardian periodically creates small blue electric fields under nearby players every 10 seconds. The fields have a distinct sound effect, and will detonate after 2-3 seconds, causing any players standing inside them to be dealt a large amount of damage and teleported to a random location within its Magic Aura. This is dangerous as it can cause players to accidentally initiate combat with other guardians. A yellow border will be present around the player's screen while they are in contact with these fields.

Players are recommended to either move out of the way or dodge before the fields detonate, or alternatively blocked to avoid the damage and teleport.

Blue Guardian

Distributed Magic.
Special Effect - Blue Pylon Power
The Blue Guardian will start with Blue Pylon Power, which makes it immune to damage. To remove this effect, the invulnerability must be stripped or corrupted. It will regain the Blue Pylon Power effect, as well as protection every 10 seconds.

Special Mechanic - Distributed Magic (Blue Guardian)
The blue guardian will create a green circle in a random place within its aura every 15 seconds. Visually, a bright green circle shrinks from within the edges of a darker green circle. Once the bright green circle has disappeared, all players within the platform will be dealt a large amount of damage. In order to avoid this damage, a minimum of three players must be standing within the green circle. Doing so will distribute highly reduced damage among the players standing within the circle. Players have approximately 5 seconds to get enough people within the circle, or else suffer a devastating attack. Having less than the required amount of players will result in all nearby players suffering the attack. Do note that players that are downed or in mid-dodge animation will not count as being inside the circle.
Vale Guardian

The Vale Guardian arena.
Health: 22,021,440
Enrage Timer: 8 minutes
Enrage Effect: Increases damage dealt by 200%.
After defeating the Vale Divisions and moving forward, players will reach a circular battlefield with the Vale Guardian standing in the center. The battlefield is divided into three sections of equal size, wherein each third of the battlefield has a uniquely colored pylon along the outside edge and a uniquely designed rune tile in the center.

The Vale Guardian is an amalgamation of the three previous Vale Divisions. The following changes have been made to their unique mechanics:

Seekers - A Seeker will spawn in the center of each tile around the arena and slowly gravitate towards a player. All Seekers will disappear after 20 seconds and a new set will spawn.
Unstable Magic Spike (Vale Guardian) (also known as blue circles) - Will deal a large amount of damage and teleport you to a random place around the arena.
Distributed Magic (Vale Guardian) (also known as green circles) - Requires a minimum of four players inside the green circle or else everyone in the arena will take 80% of their health as damage. These will only spawn in the section the Vale Guardian is standing in.
Prior to the fight, it is recommended to designate the person who will hold the Vale Guardian's aggro, colloquially called the "tank". The Vale Guardian will target the player with the highest toughness out of all players within the arena. If another player gains higher toughness at any point during the fight, it will switch targets.

The Distributed Magic (green circle) attack can be dealt with two different ways. The first is to designate four players to go to greens so that the rest of the squad can focus on dealing damage. Players that can do ranged damage are preferred for this team, along with at least one healing profession. It is imperative for this team to be vigilant for when the green circles spawn, as failure to prevent the green circles might wipe your group. Therefore members of this team should stop whatever they are doing and get to these circles as quickly as possible. The second method is to have one or two high caliber healers to mitigate the damage the attack causes. This is only possible if the group stays together and no one gets teleported. Since the attack deals a set percentage of each player's health, healers should ensure everyone is at full health before the green pops, as well as quickly heal them back up afterwards. Additionally, the damage can be partially mitigated by Barrier.

A few seconds after a player attacks or gets close enough to the Vale Guardian, an impassable barrier will be erected around the battlefield, making it impossible to leave or to rejoin mid-fight. Players standing outside of the arena will be immediately killed.

Phase 1
Once the fight has begun, the "tank" should try to keep the Vale Guardian in one place. The Vale Guardian's main attack is a punch, which cleaves; therefore, the tank should be the only one in front, and the rest should be in the back to avoid unnecessary damage.

There are a few common strategies for tanking Vale Guardian:

Tile Center: This strategy is commonly chosen if the squad chooses to have 4 players stand in every green. The tank tanks near the center of an edge of a tile, such as near a Speed Boost Mushroom, for the players that have trained the Blazing Speed Mushrooms mastery (note that the buffs given by the Speed Boost Mushroom do not stack with Swiftness or Quickness). This minimizes the distance that the party has to travel to any potential green spawn. It also ensures the party is as far away as possible from two of the seekers.
Line: This strategy is commonly chosen if the squad chooses to outheal the green. The tank stands on the edge of the circle on a line between two tiles. This maximizes distance away from the seekers, so the squad has to deal with them as little as possible.
Center: This strategy is extremely risky and is only recommended if the squad can outheal the green and effectively deal with moving out and/or immobilizing the seekers. The tank will keep Vale Guardian standing in the center of the arena. Since this places the squad right in the center of the three seekers that spawn, players will have to actively manage keeping seekers away to avoid taking extremely heavy damage from them. Due to the speed at which seekers come back in, it is recommended that the squad have very high squad dps in order to effectively carry out this strategy, as squads with lower dps may have their seeker management skills on cooldown if the seekers come back in too many times. This strategy is commonly done to maximize dps and minimize kill time - since Vale Guardian is stationary in the middle the entire time, players do not have to either wait for or follow Vale Guardian as it walks out towards the tank.
Throughout the fight, the Vale Guardian will continuously summon Seekers, use Unstable Magic Spike (Vale Guardian) (small blue circles), and spawn Distributed Magic (Vale Guardian) (green circles). Depending on your team composition, there are multiple ways of dealing with these situations.

It is possible for unfavorable scenarios to happen because of this, such as a Seeker spawning on top of a green circle, or blue circles on top of a green circle, or failing to avoid the Unstable Magic Spike and getting teleported on top of a Seeker, etc.
Some common utilities for moving around seekers include a Chronomancer's Temporal Curtain (focus 4) and a Druid's Glyph of the Tides. Players can also immobilize them in place, such as with a Druid's Entangle and Natural Convergence.
In addition to moving out or dodging the blue circles, players can also block them to avoid the teleport. Note that each field handles its teleport separately, therefore if a player is standing on two fields at the same time, they might block the first field but still get teleported by the second field.
The 80% flat damage taken from green circles places very high pressure on the healers if the squad chooses to not do greens. However, because it is based off a percentage of the health bar, damage from the greens can also be mitigated with Barrier. With some barrier, this alleviates some pressure on the healers, as healers do not have to keep every player perfectly topped off on health before the greens pop. Furthermore, players will generally have a lot more health after the green pops, which allows for more room of error afterwards too, such as seekers or blue circles deal damage as well.
Phase 2
At 66% health, the Vale guardian will turn Invulnerable and start walking towards the center of the arena. During this time 2-3 players with Condition damage should go to the red pillar, one person to the green pillar, and the rest to the blue pillar. Shortly after, the Vale Guardian will disappear and spawn the three Vale Divisions at their respective pillar. Players will also gain Pylon Attunement: Red, Pylon Attunement: Green, or Pylon Attunement: Blue depending on which section they were standing in before the divisions spawn. All divisions will have their Magic Aura. Standing within the aura of the division that is not the same color as your attunement will result in heavy pulsing damage. Each Division functions similarly to how it was done prior to the Vale Guardian fight, but with significantly less health. The group should be able to defeat the Blue Guardian while the Green Guardian is being pulled over to the group. The Condition damage players should be able to defeat the Red Guardian at this point as well. Groups with higher dps may choose to split into three groups to defeat each of the guardians at once.

Their mechanics change slightly during this phase and will return to normal afterwards.

Seekers (Red Guardian) - A Seeker will spawn at the rune in the center of that section. This Seeker can target any player within the arena, not just the ones nearby. A new one will spawn every 15 seconds and last 20 seconds before disappearing.
Unstable Magic Spike (Green Guardian) - The blue circles will only spawn for the players nearby, however they will teleport players within them anywhere around the arena. Players should take care because they can be teleported to the other guardians.
Distributed Magic (Blue Guardian) - Drops down to three players within this phase. Will deal a 80% to each player in the arena if there are not enough people.
Phase 3
Once all 3 Vale Divisions are defeated, the Vale Guardian reappears in the center of the arena. During this phase, the green pylon's section will be affected by Unstable Pylon, indicated by the lit up floor, which deals 2000 damage every second to players standing within. This damage is unaffected by damage reduction like protection. Every 20 seconds, the section that is lit by Unstable Pylon will rotate clockwise. This means that it is unfeasible to stand in one place, unlike the first phase. The "tank" must continuously move the Vale Guardian during this phase to avoid having the green circle spawn in the lit up section. While it is possible to successfully clear the green circle if this happens, it is extremely difficult to come out of it unscathed. Players should also try to avoid the blue circles during this phase, as it is possible to get teleported into the lit up section.

There are 3 methods to deal with the floor:

Around-the-world method — Starting at the border of the red and green sections, the "tank" should try their best to stay to the left of the lit floor, and move to the next once when it becomes safe. Due to the timing of floor changing and the spawn time of the green circles, it is possible to have two or more green circles spawn in a section before moving to the next one. Moving onto a lit section early is more preferred than getting there too late. This mindset becomes much more important in the final phase. This option is safer due to always being two sections ahead of the floor but slower because you need to keep moving.
Line method — Starting at the border between any two sections, the "tank" keeps the Vale Guardian to the right of the border until just before the floor changes onto their current section. Before it happens the "tank" moves over the line to the now safe section before moving back after it has passed. Like the above method, moving onto the lit section early is preferable to late, however moving too early may cause the green circles to spawn in the lit section so timing is important. If it happens to spawn in the wrong section, players should not attempt to go for it and the healers should make sure everyone is above 80% health and brace for the incoming damage. This option is faster due to the Vale Guardian being stationary for longer but more dangerous due to the timing required and possible distance to reach the green circles.
Center method — For this method, the "tank" keeps the Vale Guardian in the center, only needing to move to the safe section so the Vale Guardian doesn't attack anyone else. This method is the fastest but also most dangerous due to the green circles being able to spawn in any section. It is also possible for all three seekers to converge on your location.
The Vale Guardian will gain a new attack during this phase - Magic Storm. The Vale Guardian will stop moving and throw its fist in the air, flinging out balls of energy randomly around the arena. Its defiance bar will also unlock at this time. Players should try to break the bar as quickly as possible, because taking too long may cause the green circle to spawn in the lit up section. The Vale Guardian will automatically stop this attack after 20 seconds or if the lit up section changes (whichever happens first). However, if this happens the green circle will certainly spawn in the lit up section. A green circle cannot spawn while his defiance bar is up.

Phase 4
The fourth phase starts when the Vale Guardian reaches 33% and is exactly the same as the second phase.

Phase 5
Once all 3 Vale Divisions are defeated for the last time, the Vale Guardian reappears in the center of the arena. In general, this final phase is very similar to the third phase. The most notable difference is that an additional section of the arena will be affected by Unstable Pylon. Initially, the red pylon's section will be safe. The lit up sections will also rotate every 17 seconds (down from 20).

Due to this timing change, having two or more green circles spawn in a section becomes a lot more dangerous. The "tank" should attempt to move the Vale Guardian to the next section (regardless of whether it's lit or not) as soon as the green circle gets cleared. The Magic Storm attack also becomes a lot more dangerous because the Vale Guardian will not move. Taking too long to break its defiance bar will certainly cause a green circle to spawn in the (now) newly lit up section.

The following changes will happen to the special mechanics:

Seekers - An additional Seeker will spawn in the center of the arena, along with one at each of the runes in the center of each section. There will be a total of 4 Seekers up at any time.
Unstable Magic Spike (also known as blue circles) - Will target all players regardless of proximity. Players that are part of the green circle team should try to avoid standing on it until they are certain that this will not spawn under them.
Distributed Magic (also known as green circles) - No change, but the above two changes will make it slightly harder to deal with. Having a back up will help.

Spirit Woods

Locations of the Spectral Rifts.

Locations of the ground pads.
Part 1 - Spectral Rifts
After defeating the Vale Guardian, players get access to the encounter Spirit Woods and need to complete tasks to open gates and progress. To open the first gate, players must first kill all the spirits in the area to trigger the event.

After all the spirits are defeated Spectral Rifts will begin to spawn in addition to more spirits. Players have to stand inside of the Spectral Rifts for a period of time to close them and prevent them from dealing massive damage to all players, often wiping the run. The more players present in a given rift the faster its progress bar will move. Progress bars for each rift, as well as the overall progress on the encounter, can be seen in the upper right hand portion of the screen. The rifts spawn randomly in fixed locations. Two at east (near the River of Souls), one at north (near the gate), another at south (near the stairs) and another at west. Orange AoE attacks will spawn throughout the area and can knock players down. Faster movement skills, stability, and stun breaks are very useful to avoid this. Portal skills are very valuable here to cross large distances. There are also Adrenal Mushrooms that can be used to lower skill cooldowns if the mastery has been completed.

After opening the first gate, players enter the Abandoned Outpost. Killing all the spirits here opens the second gate. The brazier can be picked up and carried throughout the encounter to complete the Keep the Lights On achievement, and for access to the third hidden chest. Note, if the player holding the torch gets downed or killed or weapon swaps during the rest of the encounter the torch is lost.

Part 2 - Spirit Race
This part needs to be done as fast as possible. After landing from the ledge of the second gate, a massive wall of ghosts will start chasing the players. Players must close the Spectral Rifts while destroying the Ethereal Barriers. The first and second parts have 1 rift, the third part has 2 rifts and the fourth part has 3 rifts. Often 2-4 support players will stand in these to ensure all rifts get closed and the barriers destroyed.

Part 3 - Cemetery
At Bandit's Rest, 5 players need to stand on top of 5 ground pads to open the final gate. The first is past the staircase to the left in a small alcove. The rest of the group typically then attempt the jumping puzzle across the branch and mushrooms to reach the highest pad next to the gate. Once one person is successful there is a small building below that pad that contains the third one. The fourth is reached by going up the stairs to the left, the same ones used to reach the jumping puzzle, and continuing past the tree branch jump down to the lower ledge. The final pad is also to the right side of the area behind some buildings after going up the much smaller staircase. Once each of these pads has a person standing on it all at the same time the gate will open and the encounter will be completed. Note, a downed or defeated player cannot activate a button.

Gorseval the Multifarious
Health: 21,628,200
Enrage Timer: 7 minutes
Enrage Effect: Removes all updrafts and gains Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged, Increases damage dealt by 200%.
Phase 1
To start the fight, players must glide onto the platform. Gorseval won't attack until the first person gets near it, so it is recommended to glide to the edge of the platform. Once the fight starts, Spirit Barriers will be erected around the platform and four Updraft (overhead icon).pngupdrafts will spawn in each corner.

Gorseval has two main attacks he will use throughout the fight: a swipe, which deals a small amount of damage to players in front; and a slam, which deals a moderate amount of damage and  knocks back all nearby players. When you see it raise his arm high in the air, it is recommended to either block it with  Aegis or  Stability, or dodge it.

Every once in a while he will teleport to the center of the platform and start channeling his Ghostly Rampage attack. During this time, Gorseval will gain a defiance bar and Vivid  Vivid Echo, which functions similarly to retaliation. While channeling this skill, parts of the arena will be filled with black goop in a set pattern which detonates after a few seconds. Players standing within the goop when it detonates will be dealt a large amount of damage and receive 25 stacks of  Vulnerability. At the end of the channel, the entire platform will be covered in the black goop. Breaking the defiance bar will knockdown Gorseval and interrupt the attack; any black goop remaining after this attack was interrupted will still detonate. After this attack finishes, Gorseval will summon four Angered and/or an Enraged Spirit.

A short while after Ghostly Rampage ends, Gorseval channels the World Eater attack. A red circle will start expanding from the center of the platform, and once it completely fills the platform, all players and spirits still standing on the platform are instantly killed. In order to avoid this attack, players will need to reach the next phase by bringing Gorseval's health down to 66%, or destroy a spirit barrier and glide into an updraft before returning to the platform. Gorseval will gain one stack of Spirited  Spirited Fusion for each spirit killed by this attack, therefore it is recommended to kill all spirits before gliding off. Shortly after returning, Gorseval will channel his Ghostly Rampage attack again.

Spirit Phase
When Gorseval reaches 66% HP he will gain Protective  Protective Shadow, making him invulnerable, and move to the center. Four Charged Souls will spawn, each in a different part of the platform (northeast, southeast, southwest, and northwest) and begin walking towards Gorseval. If a spirit reaches Gorseval, he will immediately begin his World Eater attack. The spirits are immune to hard crowd control effects such as knockback or daze, but are susceptible to soft crowd control.  Immobile,  Chilled and  Crippled work very well for slowing the spirit's progress towards Gorseval. Once all four spirits have been killed, Gorseval becomes vulnerable once again and the fight moves to the next phase.

Phase 2
This phase is the same as Phase 1 with one additional mechanic: Spectral  Spectral Darkness (also known as orbs), which spawn periodically. They will emanate a circle that slowly increases in size. Any player that touches this circle will receive 10 stacks of Spectral  Spectral Darkness, which reduces their outgoing damage by 10% per stack, and increases incoming damage by 10% per stack. To remove the effect, players must walk over golden orbs which spawn after an orb is destroyed. Each orb will drop two when it is destroyed, and each golden orb that you pick up will remove five stacks of Spectral Darkness.

Keeping the orbs under control in this phase is very important. Players should focus on destroying the ones that have spawned close to the center, by the Charged Souls or towards an updraft. Once Gorseval reaches 33% health there will be another Spirit Phase. It will largely be the same as last time, but with orbs spawning throughout.

Phase 3
In addition to the orbs, Gorseval gains another attack: Ghastly  Ghastly Prison. After using his slam, small circles will appear under every player's feet. After a second, players standing within these circles will be encased in a cocoon. Players trapped in a Ghastly Prison will lose access to all of their skills and must break out of the prison using the skill   Rebel (default: 1). Players that are not trapped within a Ghastly Prison may help break them out by dealing damage to it. The pattern of Gorseval's Ghostly Rampage attack also changes during this phase. The fight continues in this way until Gorseval is defeated.

Bandits
After finishing the second boss of the raid, players will need to glide down to a nearby bandit camp. While passing through it, players will occasionally get tagged with Sapper Bombs (indicated by green circles under the players' feet). Players receiving the Sapper Bomb will also see the option to throw the bomb via their Special action key (default: -). Sapper bombs thrown on the launch pad will launch all players standing on said launch pad at the moment of impact. Players without the Explosive Launch mastery will be dealt a moderate amount of damage.

This event is good to learn how to throw Sapper Bombs and use launch pads. Killing all the Bandits here opens the Sabetha fight.

Sabetha the Saboteur
Health: 34,015,256
Enrage Timer: 9 minutes
Enrage Effect: All four cannons become active and gains Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged, increasing outgoing damage by 500%
In addition to the enrage timer encountered in the Vale Guardian and Gorseval the Multifarious fights, the Sabetha encounter also has a bar showing the platform health. If the platform is completely destroyed during the fight, players will fall to their deaths resulting in a failure. Besides her shotgun attack, which deals a small amount of damage to all players in front of her, bandits will spawn throughout the fight. They have special attacks such as a kick that knocks players back and a flamethrower attack that deals damage very quickly.

There are four special mechanics that will repeat throughout the fight: a flak attack, a timed bomb, a flamewall and cannons.

Flak Shot
The flak attack will always target the furthest player from herself. As such it is important to have one dedicated 'flak kiter' - a player who will move around the edges of the arena in order to keep the deadly flak off the rest of the team. Sabetha will alternate between both flak and shotgun consistently throughout the fight, using one attack, and then the other until another mechanic happens.

Time bomb
At the start of each Sabetha phase and every 15 seconds (except during a Flamewall), Time  Time Bomb will always be placed on the player closest to Sabetha. The selected player will have a large circle around them, with an inner circle that will slowly expand until the entire circle is filled. Once filled, the player it was placed on will take a small amount of damage. All other players within the circle will be dealt a large amount of damage. This damage cannot be dodged or evaded, but it can be blocked. Players with the time bomb should run away from the group until it has gone off before returning to the group.

Flamewall
Every 45 seconds of Sabetha will draw an arrow in the direction of a random player and spawn a flamewall. This flamewall will rotate 360 degrees counter-clockwise around the platform in slow motion. All players that touch the wall will be immediately defeated. The flamewall cannot be evaded or blocked; a very lucky evade frame might keep players alive, but this is not to be relied upon. Players can, however, use invulnerability through the flamewall if timed correctly as well. If Bandit Thugs are up, players should take care to not get kicked into the path of the flamewall.

The flamewall can be outrun if you are close enough to Sabetha, but you can minimize your movement if you stand to the left of the arrow, then move back to the right once the wall is far enough away. Although the flamewall may not seem to move fast for players near Sabetha, due to angular velocity players near the outer edge will see the wall move very quickly relative to the center, making it extremely difficult to outrun. Any players on the outer edge are therefore advised to move in as close as possible in order to avoid the attack.

Cannons and Sapper bombs
Throughout the fight cannons will spawn every 30 seconds in a fixed pattern, which alternate after the previous one has finished:

South then West then North then East
Followed by:
South then North then West then East

The cannon will fire down at the platform dealing damage to it and making it dangerous to stand in that quadrant of the arena. The more cannons that are up, the more damage the platform will take.

A Bandit Sapper will spawn periodically on the side of the platform opposite of the next cannon. They will mark the west-most player within their range and give them a special action skill  Sapper  Sapper Bomb, which are used to launch players up to the cannons. Players that have the the sapper bomb are marked by a green circle under them. The sapper bomb will time out after a few seconds. Sapper bombs must be thrown on the jump pads located at the four corners of the platform. All players standing on the launch pads at the time will be sent up to the platform where a cannon spawns.

Players that have been launched will the afflicted with  Shell-Shocked, rendering them unable to be launched by another sapper bomb for 50 seconds. This means a minimum of 2 players are required in order to deal with the cannons as they come up. Less experienced groups can use four players, one for each direction. Players on cannon duty are recommended (but not required) to use teleport and other movement skills to reach the launch pads more quickly. Players without the Explosive Launch mastery will take damage when launched by the sapper bomb.

Once on the platform with the cannon, the player should fully destroy the cannon before gliding back to the main platform. There will be a Bandit Sniper on an unreachable platform that will constantly fire at them. Being hit by the sniper will apply Target!.png Target!, causing them to take increased damage from subsequent attacks. Taking too long to destroy the cannon will cause them to go downed to the sniper, either while on the platform or while gliding back. The sniper can be killed, but it is not worth the trouble. Players should watch for the flamewall while gliding back. There is a small updraft that players can use to wait until the flamewall passes, but it can only be used once.

When the fight begins players should immediately make their way to Sabetha and position themselves in front of the south launch pad and prepare to launch the first player up to the cannons when it spawns. The first flamewall will coincide with the first cannon spawn, so it is best to wait until the flamewall passes over the launch pad before sending the player up. If the player was not able to be sent up (by either missing the launch pad or the bomb timing out) then players should wait for the sapper to give players the next bomb. If the sapper was killed before this could happen then the cannon should be skipped. After sending them up, the group should move to position themselves for the next cannon spawn. Groups will frequently stack on the side of Sabetha where the next cannon will spawn, so as to minimize movement for the cannon-goer if a flamewall spawns on group. If possible, players should pull the remaining bandits nearby and kill them to prevent being overrun.

Bandit Champions
At 75%, 50% and 25%, Sabetha will shadowstep off the platform and one of her champions will take her place. Each champion has their own unique attack that needs to be avoided. While Sabetha is away, players will not need to worry about flak, timed bombs or her flamewall. Cannons must be continued to be dealt with. While on the cannon platforms, Sabetha may be there too, however she will be invulnerable and ignore the player. Once her champion has reached 25% health or a minute has passed, Sabetha will return to the platform and immediately use her flamewall. Her champion should be prioritized before turning your attention back to her.

Heavy Bombs
While fighting her champions, Sabetha will toss Heavy Bombs onto the platform. These bombs will spawn randomly on the platform and have a timer above them which will slowly fill up. Once filled, they will explode and deal a large amount of damage to the platform. They will also knock nearby players back. Players can kick the bombs away using their interact key (default: F).

Kernan
Health: 3,440,850
At 75% health, Sabetha will shadowstep off the platform and her first champion, Kernan, will take her place. Unlike Sabetha, Kernan can chase players around the platform. Kernan's main attack is to shoot a player for a small amount of damage. Every few seconds she will fire three consecutive cone attacks in one direction. Each one will cover a larger area than the last and deal more damage. The third shot of this attack will deal the most damage. Because this attack only goes in one direction, players can step to the side or go behind her to avoid the attack. Alternatively, they can be evaded or blocked.

"Knuckles"
Health: 3,440,850
At 50% health, Sabetha will leave and summon "Knuckles". His main attack is to swing his hammer at players; dealing a small amount of damage. Every 30 seconds, "Knuckles" will charge up a hammer swing with the hammer over his shoulder and unlock his Defiance bar. Fail to break this bar and "Knuckles" will knock all players up and push them outwards. It is possible to be knocked off the platform by this attack. If players find themselves getting hit by this attack, they should immediately try to deploy their glider while in the air to avoid the knockback.

After Sabetha has returned, she will start using Time  Time Bomb on the two nearest players instead of one. These two players should try not to go in the same direction, lest they blow up each other. There is a short delay until the second player gets their bomb.

Karde
Health: 4,423,950
At 25% health, Sabetha will withdraw once more leaving Karde in her place. Karde possess two abilities which are of great concern to the player group. First is Karde's flamethrower attack, which inflicts damage extremely quickly to all players in front of him. Additionally, Karde will periodically summon flame turrets which shoot out projectiles. If these are not dealt with quickly, they will grow in number and quickly become unmanageable.

After Sabetha returns, she will begin to use Platform Crush, an ability which causes debris to fall from the sky, marked by small circles on the ground. Being hit deals a small amount of damage. Once Karde has been defeated, it is a race between whether Sabetha is defeated or the platform gets destroyed.

Enrage
If her enrage timer runs out she will become Enraged and all four cannons will spawn.


Salvation Pass is the second raid wing of the Forsaken Thicket raid. Players continue to investigate the fate of the missing Pact squad and the mysterious forces north of the Maguuma jungle.

Slublings
Prior to fighting Slothasor, players will have to travel through a tunnel populated with slublings. Players can choose to either kill the slublings and Evolved Slublings, or run past them and immediately begin the Slothasor encounter. Both types of slublings spit projectiles that apply conditions and corrupt boons.

Arena (Slothasor's Den)
The majority of the arena is covered in a series of overlapping green poison fields emanating from Poison Mushrooms. This poison fields quickly applies heavily damaging poisoned stacks. The encounter begins once a player eats the first Imbued Mushroom.

Poison Mushroom.
Poison Mushrooms cannot be destroyed or remove by regular player skills or utilities; however, they can be eaten by slublings. The green poison field disappears when its poison mushroom is consumed.

Poison mushrooms (and consequently their poison fields) re-spawn 60 seconds after being eaten.
Imbued Mushrooms
Imbued Mushrooms are blue glowing mushrooms which spawn in four fixed locations in the arena. A mushroom spawns every 50 seconds starting at the beginning of the arena and rotating counter-clockwise. Each mushroom can be consumed by at most once by players each time it spawns.

Any player that eats the mushroom will be magically transformed into a slubling for 45 seconds. While transformed, the player becomes hostile to the other players and friendly to Slothasor and other slublings. The transformed slubling can   Eat the poison mushrooms to clear a small area from the poison and create a safe route to where the next Imbued Mushroom spawns. After the transformation ends, the player becomes   Nauseated and cannot eat another Imbued Mushroom for 4 minutes.

Tip: Avoid attacking the player that is transformed.
Slublings & Evolved Slublings
Slublings spawn in groups of 5 every 30 seconds at the start, then every 20 seconds under 4 minutes, and finally every 15 seconds under 2 minutes. Slublings stop spawning after enrage. Skills with projectile reflection or projectile destruction/conversion are recommended for use in order to prevent them from applying heavy conditions.

Evolved Slublings begin spawning once the boss is at 25% health or lower. Their poison projectiles cannot be blocked and corrupt boons on player characters. They can be pulled together and cleaved down like normal Slublings, but it is more effective to focus on killing the boss and staying alive before too many spawn.

Tip: It is recommended that chronomancers run a focus in order to pull the slublings together so they can be cleaved down.
Tip: It may be useful to bring necromancers for Epidemic and condition clear with Plague Signet, but they need to take extra care to not spread conditions to the allied slubling.

Slothasor (Boss)
Health: 18,973,828
Enrage Timer: 7 minutes
Enrage Effect: Imbued Mushrooms stop spawning and gains Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged - Increases damage dealt by 200%.
Player Effects
 Fixated - Slothasor will fixate on one random (non-transformed) player at a time.
The fixated player has a diamond-shaped purple marker Purple  above their head.
The fixation will be chosen anew every 30 seconds (the same person may be chosen multiple times in a row).
If the fixated player consumes an Imbued Mushroom, or is downed, or gains stealth, Slothasor will fixate on a different player.
Volatile  Volatile Poison - Slothasor will mark one random (non-transformed) player with Volatile Poison (effect), which, when dropped, will spawn a slowly expanding AoE that deals massive damage to anyone standing in it. This field will grow up to a radius of 900 units and disappears 90 seconds after the player was marked with volatile poison.
Timer: Every 25 seconds (starting at 6:35)
The player with volatile poison will have a green skull above their head Volatile Poison  and the game will play an audio cue for that player.
The player may use the special action skill   Purge (default: -) to immediately drop the Volatile Poison, otherwise it will automatically drop after 8 seconds.
If the player consumes an Imbued Mushroom, or is downed, they will automatically drop the poison at their location.
Tip: It is imperative to drop this away from the group, behind, at the furthest cleared area (similar mechanic to the Time Bomb of Sabetha).
Boss Mechanics
Tantrum - Slothasor halts and repeatedly pounds its fists on the ground.
Timer: Every 45 seconds (starting at 6:45)
Slothasor will spawn 3 consecutive Area of Effect circles under each non-transformed player, once about every half second. Any player still standing in a circle will be  knocked down for 5 seconds in addition to any damage taken.
Tip: In order to prevent it from covering the limited cleared space, players should stand still and dodge when the third set of circles appear.
Halitosis - Slothasor halts and directs a cone of flame at the last known position of the fixated player.
This is a channelled attack that will apply stacks of  Burning (up to 8 stacks).
Narcolepsy - Slothasor halts and falls asleep.
Timer: Every 20% of its health as well as again at 10%
Slothasor become immune to any form of damage and will gain a defiance bar. Once the defiance bar is broken, Slothasor will Fear the entire squad, lasting 10 seconds.
Tip: Breaks  Stunbreaks must be used to escape or players may be feared into the poisoned areas and subsequently go down. To trivialize this fear, every subsquad can include a tempest running the Gale Song trait, and possibly "Eye of the Storm!" for additional coverage.
Spore Release - Slothasor halts and shakes its entire body.
Timer: Every 40 seconds (starting at 50% of its health)
Slothasor will fire projectiles in arcing trajectories at the position of nearby players
These projectiles will apply heavy stacks of torment, burning and poisoned.
These projectiles cannot be reflected or destroyed, however it is possible to block, evade, or go invulnerable in order to mitigate their damage and effects.
Tip: These projectiles move in an arc and so it's typically ideal to dodge towards Slothasor-and consequently through the barrage of spores.
General Strategy (Slothasor)
The transformed player should clear the poison mushrooms in a counter-clockwise path around the arena. There are two common routes that the player clearing mushrooms takes.
One is to eat mushrooms closer to the middle, often called an "hourglass" due to the shape of the cleared path. This route makes it very easy to pull the slublings together to cleave them all down, as the fight stays near the middle where the slublings spawn. When going on this inside route, care must be taken to drop volatile poison along the edge of the wall or they will make the far side of the path impossible to survive on.
The other route is to eat the outermost mushrooms around the room, where it's easier to drop volatile poisons safely — they can be dropped anywhere back along the path since it's already along the wall — but with a harder time keeping the slublings cleared.
The route that's taken should be chosen based on group comfort and composition, and it's viable to start with the outside strategy and then transition to the inside one after more slublings spawn.
The fixated player should lead Slothasor along the path which the transformed player has previously cleared. A recommended placement is to have Slothasor face a wall, with proper fixate positioning
The non-fixated players in the squad should stay behind Slothasor to avoid both the auto-attacks and Halitosis.

Protect the caged prisoners or Bandit Trio
This encounter's mechanics are driven by a timer. The game sends out announcements of mechanics with enough lead time to get to the appropriate location to attend to them.
Arena (Prison Camp)
Section-stub. This key section of the article is incomplete. You can help the Guild Wars 2 Wiki by expanding it.
Reason: Walkthrough - Add ability links and detail as needed
Prisoner Cage

Defend this target throughout the encounter. If it dies, the encounter ends. Possible sources of damage to the cage include:

Unnamed Bandit enemies. They will attack the cage if they are not attacking player characters.
Bandit Saboteurs specifically attack the cage with a heavy bomb that deals severe damage. CC the Saboteur to interrupt this.
Players without the Nuhoch Stealth Detection mastery trained cannot see the saboteurs.
Champion Bandits can attack the cage with AOE attacks.
Berg's melee cone attack can hit the cage if he is close enough. Keep this boss away from the cage to avoid.
Zane's long cone attacks pose a greater threat to the cage if he is facing towards it. Keep this boss pointed away from the cage by standing between Zane and the South or East walls at all times.
Narella's attacks do not damage the cage, but this phase has a lot of NPC enemies, mortars to handle, and Narella's fire tornados and conditions can affect players' ability to handle NPCs. Therefore, cage damage is more likely in this phase.
Mortar strikes are able to hit the cage multiple times. CC mortar NPCs or kill the turret quickly to minimize damage.
Player bombs triggered by the Special Action Key can damage the cage if targeted near or at the cage. Either use away from the cage, on a launch pad, or not at all.
Beehive
Use a ranged attack to knock down a beehive from a tree or bridge. This bundle can be picked up, dropped on the ground, and consumed with a skill. Use the beehive to spawn a Swarm of Bees that will attack nearby enemies. The bees are specifically effective towards Berg, giving him the Targeted debuff. Beehives can also be thrown on Bandit Saboteurs to break their CC bar while planting the bomb.

Collect beehives around the Arena and keep by the door opposite of the cage where Berg spawns. Use most beehives on Berg, but save a few for Narella's phase so the bees will assist with breaking Saboteurs' break bar in case the person assigned to CC'ing Saboteurs dies. A beehive thrown on top of the cage will single-handedly CC a saboteur trying to place a bomb.

Warg Cages
Interact with a cage to release the Tortured Warg trapped within. Wargs will target nearby enemies that are bleeding or focus on Zane to do bonus damage. Open cages on the south side to focus on Zane, then reserve the north cages for Narella.

Oil Kegs
Bundle of items sitting on the ground that can be picked up and dropped, or thrown to inflict a fire AOE. Collect Oil Kegs and keep on the first ledge to the north near the Warg cages. Ranged player characters should throw kegs periodically on Narella from the first north ledge to inflict additional burning conditions, which are more effective on her.

Bombs
Player characters will periodically be targeted by Bandit Sappers and receive a bomb that can be thrown with their Special Action Key, similar to the Sabetha encounter. Player characters can also selectively pick up bombs with the box of bombs near each Launch Pad. These bombs can be thrown at NPCs to deal extra damage, but consequently damage the cage if thrown near it. These bombs also launch players into the air on Launch Pads, and should be utilized to clear out NPCs in hard to reach areas and to leave the Arena to clear out NPCs that set up mortar turrets. They also damage the cage if they time out while near the cage.

Launch Pads
There are two Launch Pads in the Arena - one to the north and one to the south. Players can be launched into the air by using their Special Action Key while holding a bomb, received either from a Sapper or from the box of bombs near the Launch Pad. The north Launch Pad sends the player on top of the starting tower on the east side of the Arena. The south Launch Pad sends the player to the east outside the arena near where the launch pad outside the arena is. Launch area is a little larger than the actual pad. Make sure not to stand to close to avoid being thrown up by accident.

Unnamed Bandits
Bandit Snipers
Snipers place the Target!.png Target! effect on players that deals more damage to players as they continue to be hit, identical to the snipers from the Sabetha encounter. Four minutes after the snipers are killed, a new wave of snipers will respawn with half their initial HP and will take extra damage from reflects.

Bandits
Throughout the encounter Bandit Clerics, Sappers, Assassins, Deathsayers, and Battlemages will come through each of the north, west, and east gates in waves of 3-6. Watch for red AoEs and the vast amount of CC abilities. Bandit Clerics will heal other bandits throughout the encounter. It is recommended to group all the bandits together or near the current Bandit Champion in order to clear the majority of them as fast as possible. During some of the Bandit Champions the bandits may aggro onto the cage, it is important to pull them away or kill them quickly (without getting additional enemies onto the cage) if they do this. Bringing a long range reflect (such as Wall of Reflection or Feedback) that can be dropped between sappers and the cage can help take pressure off as well.

Bandit Saboteurs
Saboteurs are stealthed mobs (visible only with Nuhoch Stealth Detection) that can spawn from any gate. Saboteurs spawn in a fixed pattern, with one arriving midway through the fight with Berg, then a pause until midway through the fight with Zane before they start arriving every 30 seconds until near the end of the fight. They ignore all players and run straight for the prisoner cage. A message will appear every time one spawns, warning players that a Saboteur is on its way to the cage. Upon arrival, they will gain a breakbar (that has 200 strength) and begin planting a bomb. Players then have ten seconds to break the bar. If unsuccessful, the bomb deals 55% of the cage's health in damage. The bar can also be broken with the skill provided by beehives.

Mortars
Bandit Bombardiers will spawn every minute outside the fort. The first three will spawn to the southwest of the fort, and the fourth will spawn with one on top of the eastern tower and one on the high bridge to the north west of it. Depending on the player confidence, sending two people to deal with the fourth set of mortars can help improve success at stopping them from deploying. They will take 20 seconds to move to a location and will begin construction of mortars which will shoot into the fort. They need to be CC'ed while their breakbars are available. Once they reach their turret destination, they will go into a breakbar phase and will begin construction of the turrets. When the bar is broken, the bombardiers will stop the construction the turrets, and will run into the fort and behave like all the other bandits.

Champion Bandits
The champion bandits spawn roughly every 2 minutes; their attacks can deal significant damage to the prisoner cage. It's recommended to kill each Champion Bandit before the next one spawns in order to prevent players from having to fight two at the same time. The encounter ends when all three champions have been defeated.

Berg
Berg will spawn at the east gate at 6:55.

Mordremoth's Smash - A channelled hammer AoE attack that hits in a large arc in front of him, but he will gain a defiance bar while channelling.
Breaking Berg's defiance bar will stop the channelling and will daze him for 8 seconds.
Environmental Weakness: Bees
Beehives thrown at him will apply the Throw  Not the Bees! debuff to damage him over time.
This debuff increases the window time of the defiance bar from 2 seconds to 4 seconds and increases the cooldown of Mordremoth's Smash from 5 seconds to 20 seconds.
Zane
Zane will spawn at the south gate at 4:55.

Hail of Bullets - A triple cone-shaped attack (similar to Kernan from the Sabetha encounter), and just like Kernan's attack the third shot is extremely deadly.
Unrelenting Assault - Every 18 seconds, he will shadowstep to the furthest player within a ~1000 range (similar to Mai Trin), leaving behind a blinding field.
Environmental Weakness: Veteran Tortured Wargs
When freed from their cages, these wargs will focus on enemies who are  Bleeding.
The wargs will exit the camp 45 seconds after being released.
Narella
Narella will spawn at the west gate at 2:55.

Flak Shot - Narella targets the furthest player within range with this attack (similar to Sabetha's flak shots).
Fiery Tornado - Spawns a fiery tornado that will follow a player around for the duration it is up. These will toss players around.
Environmental Weakness: Oil Slicks
The oil kegs will spawn oil slicks where thrown, which can be ignited using  Burning.
Lit oil slicks will add a stack of Heat Wave (Matthias Gabrel effect).png Slow Burn that deals damage when moving and applies burning every 10 seconds onto Narella.
Tip: The effect does not stack, so it's usually best to evenly space out the kegs one at a time.
General Strategy (Prison Camp encounter)
Initial Preparation
The raid group usually gathers on top of the tower where they are launched by the Sapper Bomb from the platform in the south east. At the beginning of the encounter players must split up around the encampment to kill Bandit Snipers on the North and South walls, as well as on the two suspended bridges over the center of the camp. They should also gather the environmental items available in order to support the fight.

A common strategy is to split the raid into two squads of five. One squad goes across the high bridge that is connected to the platform, knocking down beehives and collecting the oil kegs while clearing the snipers. After the snipers are taken care of, that group should drop down (Bringing the oil kegs with them) and either join the lower group or deal with snipers on the eastern wall. The second squad drops down to the ground and clears out the Sappers that start in the courtyard. After that they usually move to the northeast, where they stack in the corner by the small flight of stairs so that the snipers in the north will come down to be easily cleaved down. Both groups are responsible for bringing in beehives and kegs, using the weapon swap to drop them in place rather than throwing them. Two beehives should be placed near the east gate in order to be ready for use on Berg, while the others should be placed nearer the cage for use during the fight with Narella. Oil kegs should be stacked at the edge of the platform in the north so that they can be thrown at Narella one at a time as the fight progresses.

Mortars
The first two groups of bombardiers each have only one mortar in them, while the third has three and the fourth has two. Because the mortar setup is staggered in the groups that have more than one, it is possible for a single person to handle breaking all of them. To make it easier to handle the set of three, a beehive can be carried out and thrown at one of the setup points.

Zane
His two skills makes it even more important than usual for everyone to stack in one spot away from the cage. Popular stack spots are immediately inside south gate where he spawns, between the two warg cages by the stairs, or at the base of the stairs.

Releasing six wargs - four from the two sets of cages near the gates, and two from up the stairs (That can be released by the player who takes out the mortars on their way back in) should provide enough damage to defeat Zane before Narella spawns, and leaves two wargs to help provide damage against Narella. As the fight with Zane nears its end a saboteur will spawn, the group's dps is reasonable if Zane is defeated before the saboteur is vulnerable to being broken.

Narella
Another source of damage can be the remaining wargs that were not released to attack Zane. Since the ones on the small platform in the north are nearest to Narella, they are commonly used for this purpose.

To free peoples' attention so they can focus on avoiding the fiery tornados and keeping dps up it is easiest to throw a beehive in front of the cage when Narella spawns. This will take care of saboteurs for its duration, and when the effect fades another beehive can be used. During this phase it is critical that flak shots not land on the cage and that mortars not be allowed to freely fire and damage it or the attempt will likely fail due to destruction of the cage. If dps is low, the fourth set of mortars may need to be dealt with, but if dps is good Narella should be defeated before or just as the final set of mortars starts up.


Matthias Gabrel
Health: 25,953,840
Enrage Timer: 10 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged - Increases damage dealt by 200%. Will no longer use Blood Sacrifice.
Player Effects
Locust  Corruption - Matthias will corrupt one random player, which surrounds them with a red AoE circle that damages all players.
Timer: Every 30 seconds (starting at 9:55)
The corruption can be cleansed in one of the 4 Forsaken Thicket water fountains in the boss room. Once a fountain is used, it turns from clear to red and cannot be used to cleanse another poison for approximately 90 seconds. The first well used will be ready for use again after all of them have been used.
If the player does not have Forsaken Thicket Waters mastery, using a cleansing fountain during the fight against Matthias Gabrel deals heavy damage and stuns for 3 seconds.
Unstable Blood  Unstable Blood Magic - Matthias will afflict one random player with Unstable Blood Magic, which, when dropped, will spawn a Well of the Profane (a large red AoE) at the player's feet (an identical mechanic to Volatile Poison in the Slothasor encounter). While this effect is active, the player takes damage. The well AoE will vanish after 90 seconds.
Timer: Every 10 seconds (only during the Heat Wave phases)
The player with unstable blood magic will have a green skull above their head Volatile Poison  and the game will play an audio cue for that player.
The player may use the special action skill   Purge (default: -) to immediately purge the Unstable Blood Magic, otherwise it will automatically drop after 8 seconds.
Tip: It's best to run to the edge of the room (between fountains) to drop the AoE. After dropping the AoE, the player may dodge to avoid being hit by the well.
Tip: Avoid dropping the skill in a water fountain.
 Zealous Benediction - An orange AoE circle will appear under the player, filling up over 5 seconds. (similar to Timer Bomb on Sabetha).
After 5 seconds, the player will take a small amount of damage, but any other players in the AoE circle will be downed.
Timer: Every 20 seconds (only during the Downpour and Abomination phases)
Affects 5 players during Downpour and everyone (except corrupted players) during the Abomination phase.
Players affected by Zealous Benediction cannot be corrupted which sometimes leads to skipping a corruption application.
Boss Mechanics
Blood  Blood Shield - Matthias shields himself and becomes invulnerable to most damage.
Timer: Every 30 seconds before 40% health and every 50 seconds after transformation. Timer only starts once all stacks have been removed though.
Matthias will fire Blood Shard projectiles at the same target as Oppressive Gaze. These projectiles will need to be reflected back to him to remove the 18 shield stacks.
Tip: It is highly recommended to not bring projectile destruction/conversion during this phase as it may override the projectile reflection.
Blood Sacrifice - A red arrow will appear on one player's head and they will be teleported to the center of the room after 4 seconds. The player will gain a defiance bar and must be broken within 10 seconds to free the player or they will die.
Timer: Every 45 seconds (starting at 9:45, but not during the Abomination phase)
Shards of Rage - Matthias spins in the air and slams down his staff down to the ground to shoot out a circle of projectiles.
Getting hit by these projectiles will apply the Blood  Blood Fueled to anyone hit.
During the Abomination phase, he will shoot projectiles in arcing trajectories all over the room.
Tip: Avoid reflecting these projectile back to Matthias.
Phase Mechanics
The environmental hazards vary according to the current weather attuned to by an unstable Matthias.
Phase 1 - Ice
Snowstorm (Matthias Gabrel effect).png Snowstorm - Periodically damages players. Reduces movement speed and applies  Chilled every 10 seconds.
Icy Patch - Circles of ice periodically appear around the room. Walking over them chills the player and knocks them down. These patches are targetable and can cleared with burn.
Oppressive Gaze - Matthias spins his staff briefly and fires an orb of energy that does massive amount of damage.
Matthias will aim this attack at the same target every time (but will switch if that player is no longer alive).
Used after his Shards of Rage attacks and after breaking his blood shield.
Tip: This attack can easily avoided by dodging or by standing behind him.
Phase 2 - Fire
Heat Wave (Matthias Gabrel effect).png Heat Wave - Periodically applies 3 stacks of  Burning to players. Damages players standing still for too long.
Fire Tornado - Fire tornadoes roam around the room, pulling-in and damaging any nearby players.
It is possible to escape these tornadoes by either stunbreaking and dodging away, or waiting through the attack.
Unstable Blood  Unstable Blood Magic will be afflicted on one random player.
Phase 3 - Storm
 Downpour - Periodically damages players. Movement increases stack count and applies 5 stacks of  Poisoned every 3⅓ seconds.
When a player reaches 10 stacks, they will lose all stacks and gain  Unbalanced; if the player continues to move, they will be  knocked down, however, the debuff will be removed if the player does not move.
Tip: It is recommended for players to either avoid movement entirely, or conversely to move until they get the unstable effect, and then stop moving in order to negate the mechanic and be able to move at a key moment.
Storm Cloud - A single large cloud slowly roams the room. Players standing will get damaged by Thunder and gains stacks of Downpour.
 Zealous Benediction will be afflicted on 5 random players.
Phase 4 - Abomination
Matthias' Power will become  Unstable and he will transform into a bloodstone-infused abomination.

During this phase, Matthias will cycle through the Snowstorm, Heat Wave, and Downpour phases every 30 seconds, retaining all their mechanics.
While transformed phase, Matthias will have an identical set of skills as prior to his transformation, however their effects will be increased in potency.
e.g., all players are now tagged by bomb-like AoEs instead of 5, and his Oppressive Gaze attack deals even more damage.
Surrender - A spirit will walk across the centre of the room in a straight path.
The spirits deal heavy damage if it walks through a player; this damage cannot be evaded but can be blocked.
Below 20% health, an additional spirit will spawn.


Stronghold of the Faithful is the third raid wing of the Forsaken Thicket raid. Players push on to investigate the sinister reason behind the White Mantle enclave.

Siege the Stronghold
Glenna must be escorted to the stronghold's courtyard.

To begin the encounter, one player must interact with her and select the option Let's start the mission. Once the encounter has started, players will remain in combat until they have killed McLeod the Silent and opened the final gate.

It is recommended to split the squad into two groups prior to starting this encounter: a Tower group and an Escort group. It is imperative that all members of the tower group have the Bouncing Mushroom, Ley Line Gliding and Forsaken Thicket Waters masteries. Their roles will be explained below.

Initial Mechanics
The most important thing to note is that if Glenna dies, the encounter will fail. There is no time limit, so players may spend as long as they want.

Once the encounter has begun, Glenna will gain 15 stacks of  Surveilled. Glenna will lose one stack every second if a player is not within 1000 range of her. Once a player is within range, her stacks will start to regenerate. If it reaches 0, five White Mantle Seekers will spawn and proceed to kill her. These should be dispatched quickly if they happen to spawn.

All players will gain the special action skill  Over Here!.png Over Here! (Default key: -) that they can use to call Glenna to their current position. The range of this skill is 1500 units so it can be used outside of the range needed to prevent her stacks from going down (not recommended). Using the skill will also prevent her stacks from increasing or decreasing until she has stopped moving. Using this skill is required to proceed through the encounter.

The first obstacle is a lowered drawbridge. At the base of the drawbridge is a white glowing circle. When Glenna is called to stand in the circle she will cast a spell to summon a ley line. Players will need to cross the gap and interact with a lever to raise the drawbridge, allowing Glenna to cross. After the drawbridge raised, players will need to call Glenna to the gate so that she may blow it open. Be wary of the explosion as it will down any players caught in its blast. Subsequent runs will have this already completed, allowing players to wait at the gate before starting the encounter.

Once players have crossed the gate, the encounter begins.

A red orb will spawn which will summon White Mantle shortly after. This group should be dispatched so that Glenna may safely join up with the group. Once this group is defeated, players should split into their respective groups: a Tower group and an Escort group. Both groups will need to proceed with coordinated effort in order for this encounter to succeed.

Tower Group
The tower group must first head through the Tunnel of Respite. While running through the tunnel players will be afflicted with Toxic  Toxic Spores, which reduces healing and deals a small amount of damage every second. Walking through Thicket Waters (requiring the Forsaken Thicket Waters) will give players  Healing Cleanse which will slightly heal them and make them immune to the effects of toxic spores. Within the tunnel are also multiple Mushroom foes that will attempt to slow players down. Depending on the group's composition, experience, and strategy, they may either be killed or ignored. Once the tunnel is cleared, a group of White Mantle will spawn, which can also be skipped or killed.

Players will need to run though a minimum of three Thicket Waters in order to clear the tunnel.

The group will then need to climb the nearby cliff and glide over to the Bouncing Mushroom, that they will use to get onto the tower.

Escort Group
The escort group will continue forward on the ground, bringing Glenna along with them.

While walking through, players will encounter mines. These mines are surrounded by a red outline, followed by a white outline. If a player steps into the the red outline, it will detonate, instantly killing them. The mine will be untargetable and immune to damage until a player steps into the white outline, revealing the mine. Players who do this must try to avoid stepping into the red outline. Glenna will also be instantly killed if she steps into the red outline. Players should also be careful to not get  feared or  kicked into the mines. The mines will respawn shortly after they are destroyed, creating a red circle on the ground and slowly growing outwards. If Glenna was unfortunately placed on a respawning mine, and players fail to notice, it will instantly detonate.

While progressing through the stronghold, waves of White Mantle soldiers will march towards the group. They should be dispatched quickly so that the group may advance.

Eventually, the group will come across an area being bombarded by the tower above, making it impossible to continue forward. This will be taken care of by the tower group.

Securing a tower
Atop the tower will be multiple White Mantle soldiers, encircled within a red ring. Once the number of players within the circle outweighs the number of White Mantle soldiers, the ring will turn green and start being captured. There is no visible progress bar when this happens. The fewer soldiers there are within the ring, the faster it will capture. Players may either kill the soldiers or use  Pulls or  Knockbacks to move them out of the ring. Once the tower is captured, it will cease firing, allowing the escort team to continue moving forward. When all White Mantle soldiers are killed, a new wave will spawn shortly after in an attempt to regain control of the tower. It is recommended to keep at least one alive to prevent this from happening.

Once the tower is captured, multiple things will happen. Players with the Forsaken Magic mastery may interact with the tower, allowing them to rain shards on incoming White Mantle soldiers for the escort team or at point-blank range on to undefeated enemies on the tower. Additionally, a ley line will spawn below, allowing players on the tower team to go down and help the escort team and then go back up, or vice versa. Additionally, a Warg Bloodhound will spawn at both the top of the stronghold and the entrance (colloquially called the front and back wargs respectively).

Warg Bloodhounds
These Wargs will have a special icon on the map and will slowly move directly towards Glenna, ignoring all players. If they reach her, they will deal heavy damage, enough to kill her in one or two hits. They are immune to hard Crowd Control effects, but vulnerable to soft effects such as  Chilled,  Immobile,  Crippled. It is recommended to move Glenna away if a warg gets near.

A common strategy is to have a player or two to deal with the warg that spawns behind the group. Players in this group should take care in avoiding the recently respawned mines while chasing down the warg. Depending on how quickly the main group advances, their job can be as simple as killing the warg as it spawns or slowing down multiple wargs. Once the four back wargs have been dealt with, they may rejoin the main group.

The escort team should continue moving forward until either the front or back warg gets close or they reach another impassable area due to the tower above. This time, there will be a white circle on the ground in front of this area, where players must bring Glenna so that she may create another ley line, allowing the tower team to move up to the next tower.

The entire siege comprises of 5 towers to be captured. Once the fifth tower is captured, McLeod the Silent will spawn and the final phase will start.

McLeod the Silent
After the last tower is captured, McLeod the Silent will spawn. It is recommended for all players on the tower to jump down and rejoin with the escort team for this fight. One of his core mechanics is to teleport to the furthest player, as such it is not uncommon for him to teleport to the top of the last captured tower if players did not jump off in time. If this happens, players should continue their return to the rest of their squad, and simply wait for him to teleport once again. Alternatively, players may stay on the tower and do some damage before returning to the group.

During this phase, Glenna's  Surveilled stacks will not go down, so it is not necessary to stay near her for this fight. Players will also lose their  Over Here!.png Over Here! until after McLeod is killed.

There are three main mechanics players need to be aware of while fighting McLeod. His main attack resembles the mesmer's  Blurred  Blurred Frenzy and will apply a very high amount of confusion to players.

When he reaches 75%, 50%, and 25% health he will disappear and summon two clones with the same attacks. Each clone will have eitherCrimson  Crimson Attunement or Radiant  Radiant Attunement. All players will be randomly given these attunements as well. The clones can only be damaged by players with the same attunement. The attunement of each character is additionally indicated by an colored overhead icon both of which can be seen in the gallery below.

The moment both clones are defeated, McLeod will return to the battlefield. as well as summon a Warg Bloodhound at the nearby gate. This warg will behave identical to those fought during the escort and must be dealt with swiftly before it reaches Glenna. If Glenna dies or all players are defeated, the entire encounter will have to be redone.

Once McLeod is defeated, players are free to bring Glenna to the gate for her to blow it open with her explosives. Once the door is blown open, the encounter is completed.

Keep Construct
Health: 55,053,600
Enrage Timer: 10 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged — Increases damage dealt by 200%.
Keep Construct (Boss)
The Keep Construct will aggro on the player with the highest amount of toughness. It has an extremely large amount of health, so dealing damage to it, while not completely pointless, will be largely ineffective. In order to do more damage, the two stacks of Xera's  Xera's Embrace must be removed first.

Boss Mechanics
Vengeance (Mordrem).png Gaining Power - Every minute, the Keep Construct will gain a stack, which increases the damage all its attacks will do.
Xera's  Xera's Embrace - When a projection is killed, it will create a large green circle for a second. If the Keep Construct is standing within that circle, it will remove one stack of Xera's  Xera's Embrace.
Tower Drop - The Keep Construct will create a tether between itself and the nearest player, then leap into the air, landing a few seconds later and  knocking down all nearby players.
Phantasmal Blades (below 75%) - The Keep Construct will sit down and create a small portal-like circle at its base. It will then alternate slamming its arms down on the ground and creating a blade that slowly revolves around it.
Players standing in the portal or hit by the blades will gain  Confusion (faster if they are in the portal). There are small gaps in between each blade where players may stand and safely deal damage.
This attack will gain an additional blade every 25% health the Keep Construct loses, capping at three blades.
Hail of Fury (below 33%) - The Keep Construct will leap into the air, becoming untargetable, and drop debris on the arena,  Stunning players that get hit.
Even though it cannot be targeted, Xera's  Xera's Embrace can still be removed by killing projections on top of where it was before it leapt away.
Mesmer Projections
Health: 378,576
8 of the statues that ring the arena walls will light up, shatter and spawn projections over the course of the fight; at most one statue from either the east or west sides will spawn at a time and it will re-form once its projection is destroyed. Each projection, upon spawning, will immediately fixate on a player and begin walking towards them.

Each projection will have a large white circle around them; if a projection enters the circle of another, they will both stop whatever they were doing and start slowly walking towards each other. When they meet, they will merge and form an Insidious Projection.
When a projection is destroyed, it will spawn a green circle (around half the radius of the white circle). This green circle will will remove a stack of Xera's  Xera's Embrace from the Keep Construct.
Each statue will spawn one of eight different projections: Galleta the Persistent, Henley the Tremulous, Engul the Calculating, Jessica the Benevolent, Olson the Elder, Ianim the Architect, Faerla the Fastidious, or Caulle the Vociferous. All 8 projections share the same attacks that do minor damage.

Spawn Schedule
One projection will spawn from each of the two sides 20 seconds into each of the 3 main phases.
Once a projection is destroyed, a new projection from the same side will spawn after 20 seconds.
Statues will light up 8 seconds before they shatter and spawn their projection, giving plenty of advanced notice to get in position.
All projections (except insidious ones) will despawn at the start of the Magic Blast phase.
Player Effects
 Fixated - Once they spawn, projections will immediately fixate on one player, indicated visually by a white tether connected to the player and by a system message received by the fixated player stating that "You have been fixated."
If there are multiple projections then they will each choose a different player, usually either right next to the other fixated player or bisecting the stream created by the other projection.
The player the Keep Construct is aggroed on will not be fixated unless they are the last player alive.
If a fixated player goes down, the phantasm will immediately switch to another valid player.
Insidious Projections will do large amounts of damage and corrupt boons, turning them into conditions. The Insidious Projection has more health than normal projections, making them more difficult to kill. It will not remove a stack of Xera's  Xera's Embrace even if it is killed. Many groups will choose to reset instead of dealing with them.

Phase	Objective
Cycles through the following phases in order until the Keep Construct is brought down to 66% or 33% health at which point it transitions to the Magic Blast phase.
Initial	Kill projections on top of the Keep Construct to remove stacks of Xera's Embrace
Ends When: all stacks of Xera's Embrace are stripped.
Defiance Bar	Break the Keep Construct's defiance bar
Ends When: defiance bar is broken
Core Exposed	Station 2 people on each of the 3 circles when they disappear
Ends When: green circles have disappeared (when 10 seconds have elapsed).
Ley Rifts	Push the core through the rifts to accrue stacks of Compromised on the Keep Construct
Ends When: Construct Core has been brought to all five rifts, retrieved or knocked out of the arena
Core Retrieved	Deal damage to the Keep Construct
Ends When: 20 seconds have elapsed
The Keep Construct was brought down to 66% or 33% health. Upon completion, resumes at the Initial phase.
Magic Blast	Prevent Xera's energy orbs from reaching the Keep Construct
Ends When: 30 seconds have elapsed
Initial Phase
The goal of this phase is to kill projections on top of the Keep Construct to remove stacks of Xera's  Xera's Embrace. Once both stacks are removed, the Keep Construct will gain a Defiance bar, which should be broken in order to start the Core Exposed phase.

During this phase, the Keep Construct has two possible mechanics that it will choose from randomly:

Xera's  Xera's Fury - All players will have a large circle spawn around them, with a red circle emanating from the center. Once the circle is fully red, each player loses 20% of their maximum health for each circle they are standing in (including their own circle).
Tip: It is recommended for all players, except the tank and one of the fixated players, to spread out. This is to allow the projection to strip a stack of Xera's  Xera's Embrace if it gets killed. Players who spread out are recommended to continue attacking the projection at a range.
Radiant/Crimson Phantasms - The Phantasm attack will spawn multiple Radiant and Crimson Phantasms around the arena. All players will be given either Radiant  Radiant Attunement or Crimson  Crimson Attunement and must kill all phantasms they are attuned to.
If there are any phantasms still around, they will explode and deal a massive amount of damage to all players.
The above two attacks may be interrupted by breaking the Keep Construct's Defiance Bar, if it is available, removing the need to do any of the mechanics required for it. (i.e. the phantasms will disappear and the time bomb circles will dissipate.)

Bug Bug:
Sometimes the Radiant/Crimson Phantasms do not disappear even after Keep Construct's Defiance Bar is broken, forcing the party to destroy them with little time, otherwise the phantasms will explode and wipe the party.
Core Exposed Phase
The Construct's Core is exposed. Deny Xera's phantasms from protecting it.

Once the Keep Construct's Defiance Bar is broken, it will start to rise into the air and evade all attacks for a few seconds. Shortly after, three invulnerable Xera's Phantasms will spawn, and create a green circle around them that will slowly shrink. A minimum of two players must stand in each circle, or else the Keep Construct returns to the center of the arena, invulnerable, and kills all players, forcing the fight to be reset. Players should continue standing on the circle until after the next phase starts, as leaving the circle too early may trigger the aforementioned scenario.

During this phase, projections will continue to spawn. Players should avoid dragging a projection across the arena to the opposite side, as that is where the next projection will spawn, allowing them to easily merge. Players that are not on a circle should continue focusing down these projections as they spawn.

Ley Rifts Phase
Collide the core with unstable ley rifts.

If the previous phase was completed successfully, the arena will be surrounded by a red ring and five Unstable Ley Rifts will spawn around the inner edge. The Construct Core will then spawn in the center and Retriever Projections will spawn around the arena. This phase will end prematurely if a Retriever Projection picks up the Core. The Retrievers have a Defiance Bar which may be broken to stun them for a short while. The red ring will do a moderate amount of damage to any player standing in it.

The Core must be brought to the unstable rifts. For each rift the core touches, the Keep Construct will gain one stack of  Compromised during the next phase, which increases the damage taken by 75%, up to a total of 375% if the Core was brought to all five rifts. The Core may be  Pushed,  Pulled, or  Launched into each of the rifts. If these effects are not available, a player may attack the core to push it a short distance. (Cooldown: 1 second) Moving the Core into the outer red ring will cause this phase to immediately end. Player pets, minions or illusions cannot push the Core, but it will be distracting for the player doing it. (Especially illusions because they look similar to the projections)

The Projections summoned by the statues will continue to spawn in this phase and should be dispatched quickly. It is recommended to bring them to the center to avoid inadvertently hitting the Core, which may knock it out of the circle. If the core gets close to the red area, it can be pulled away or a player may go into the red area, temporarily, to knock it back towards the next rift.

Bug Bug:
Sometimes the core may get stuck in one spot. It will not move even if skills specifically target it. The phase will end once a Retriever Projection touches it.
Core Retrieved Phase
The Construct's core has been retrieved.

Once the core has been brought to all five rifts, retrieved or knocked out of the arena, the Keep Construct will return into the center of the area. During this time, the Keep Construct will be  Stunned and  knocked down. The duration depends on how many stacks of  Compromised it has. Players should try do as much damage as possible during this phase.

If no rifts were obtained in the previous phase or the effects of  Compromised wore off, then the Keep Construct will start attacking players shortly afterwards. The Keep Construct will have regained both stacks of Xera's  Xera's Embrace at the start of this phase, though any projections killed on top of it will have continued to remove stacks. Players will need to remove all remaining stacks of Xera's  Xera's Embrace and restart from the initial phase until the conditions for the next phase are achieved.

Magic Blast
The Keep Construct is attracting energy to unleash Magic Blast.

Once the Keep Construct is brought down to 66% or 33% health, it will start channeling its Magic Blast attack and gains Xera's  Xera's Boon which will make it invulnerable for a while. Any projections still remaining will disappear and additional ones will not spawn during this phase.

Crimson and Radiant Energy (red and white orbs) will start spawning around the edge and slowly gravitate towards the Keep Construct. Players will then gain either Crimson  Crimson Attunement or Radiant  Radiant Attunement and must intercept each orb before they reach the Keep Construct. Each orb that gets absorbed will grant one stack of Magic Blast  Magic Blast Intensity (caps at 35 stacks), which will increase the damage the Magic Blast attack will do. Intercepting an orb of the same color will deal a small amount of damage to the player and absorb the orb. Intercepting an orb of the opposite color will also deal some damage to the player, but will pass through them.

Players are recommended to spread out as evenly as possible and collect as many orbs as they can. It is not required to stray too far away from the center. Since collecting orbs deal damage to the player, players should constantly heal themselves and others during this phase. The orbs can deal critical damage.

This phase ends after approximately 30 seconds, after which it will release its attack (unblockable), and will resume at the initial phase.

General Strategy (Keep Construct)
A common strategy is to bring the Keep Construct to one side of the field, under the statue that is lighting up. This allows players to immediately focus down one projection and kill it before the other gets too close. The second projection should be killed as quickly as possible because a new statue will start lighting up on the same side of the field soon after. Then the defiance bar is broken and players spread around the three green circles. Generally the fixated player and the DPS players stay together to cleave down the projections. When the Construct Core appears the designated player should push it through as many Ley Rifts as necessary, and squadmates can help to speed it up if possible. Then the boss can be damaged until he reaches 66% or 33% health, and players have to collect orbs of the same colour they're assigned to.

These phases are repeated until the boss dies.


Twisted Castle
The Twisted Castle encounter begins once players kill the 3 White Mantle enemies down the stairs leaving the arena from Keep Construct.

Madness
Throughout this encounter, a new effect is present on all players, called  Madness. Each player's stacks of madness will increase throughout the encounter, and will increase at a faster rate if the character (not the player's camera) is facing the central rotating pillar. Depending on the stack number, different effects will be applied:

Players that have the Forsaken Thicket Waters mastery will have the option, upon interacting with Fountains throughout the Twisted Castle, to either "Dip your hands into the water."—removing 10 stacks of madness—or "Drink the water."—granting temporary madness immunity.

Haunting Statues
Throughout the Twisted Castle, players may encounter Haunting Statues, either singular or in groups. These statues have extremely high toughness and health pool; as such attempting to destroy them is not recommended. If a character (not a player's camera) faces one of these statues, it will not be able to attack or move (Creeping  Creeping Pursuit); however should no character be facing the statue, it will rush towards a random player. Any player entering the red area of effect at the statue's feet will instantly be teleported to the start of the maze.

A common strategy for dealing with these statues is to have one person hold the statue in place while the rest of the group runs by. One of the players having ran by the statue then turns around and faces the statue in order to allow the initial squad member to join the rest of the group.

Making it through the maze without being caught by a statue awards the Evasive Maneuver achievement. Eligibility may be tracked via the Achievement  Eligibility: Evasive Maneuver Achievement effect.

The Maze
In order to proceed through the maze, players will need to navigate through multiple sectors of the maze, defeating mobs, and activating multiple pressure plates (commonly referred to as "buttons") to open doors. As running the entire maze in one big group would prove too slow, a common strategy is to separate some players from the main group to activate far away buttons. For ease of explanation, a map detailing the path is present on the right of this walkthrough.

In order to move from one platform to another, players must approach an active gate (an active gate will pulse pink and purple, similar to a mesmer portal) and hit their interact key (default binding 'F'). Going through portals will bring players to a pre-defined location, where they will either encounter a set of enemies, traps, and/or haunting statues. If there are White Mantle enemies on the platform players spawned on, they will need to be defeated in order to activate the next portal.

Occasionally players will be exposed to fake floors. In order to not fall through these, players will need to distinguish real floor panels from fake floor panels. Contrary to the real, stable and sturdy, real floor panels, the fake floor panels have a slight distortion effect applied to them, most noticeable near their edges.

In order for the encounter to end, only one player needs to interact with the bell at the end of the maze. Once the bell is rung, players will be able to respawn or take the portal up to Xera's platforms where the players will begin the last encounter of wing 3.

General strategy
The most common way to approach the encounter involves certain skips that make it faster and easier to complete, in which the squad sticks together throughout the entire encounter and 1-3 players split from the main group to activate certain key buttons.


Xera
Health: 22,611,300 (goes up to 25,560,600 after 50%)
Enrage Timer: 11 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged — Increases outgoing damage
Upon arriving at the Xera encounter, players will be faced with one of Xera's illusion, standing still on a lower platform taunting the players. Once players destroy this very low health clone; the Xera fight will begin. It is therefore recommended to only destroy the clone once everyone is ready to start the encounter.

Note that players can walk anywhere on the same platform as the clone with no effect on its status whatsoever.

Initial Puzzle and Platform Phase

Once the initial Xera clone is destroyed, ley-lines will appear on both the eastern and western sides of the platform. As the group is expected to clear both sides in roughly the same time, the squad should split themselves up accordingly. Each platform holds a Bloodstone Fragment in the middle of the platform, protected by a dome; both of which must be destroyed to continue.

The first platform puzzle is very similar to the Core Phase in the Keep Construct encounter. Each platform will have three Exquisite Conjunctions, three Unstable Rifts, and 3 un-named orange areas of effects moving around the platform. In order to remove the protective dome from the shard, each Conjunction must be pushed through an Unstable Rift. Pushing a Conjunction through one of the orange aoes, or pushing them off the edge of the platform, will cause the loss of said Conjunction, and players will need to wait for it to respawn. Once all Unstable Rifts destroyed, players are free to destroy the Bloodstone Fragment. With it destroyed, a ley line will appear, heading southward towards the next platform.

The second platform puzzle consists of three pressure pads and a protected Bloodstone Fragment. If all three pressure plates are stood on at the same time, the protective dome around the shard will be removed, allowing for it to be attacked. Standing on each pad will give a unique effect to each player standing atop it. Regardless of the pad, once the stack reaches 10, it will do damage equals to 100% of player's health. Full health with barrier will be able to stay alive after 10 stack and the stacks will start over again. As it is rather unlikely players will be able to destroy the shard in one burn, all 3 players should hop onto their pressure plates at the same time, and on the count of 9 stacks, rotate to one of the other pressure plates. This should be repeated until the shard is destroyed.

It should as well be noted, that after about 30 seconds from the start of the fight, the first platform will become ensnared in Xera's Ribbons, and after about 60 seconds so will the second. Standing on a platform ensnared in ribbons will yield very high damage onto the players.

With the second platform cleared, a ley line will once again appear allowing both groups in the squad to gather on the southernmost platform. A few moments later players will be prompted to glide to a newly appeared, central, platform where Xera is present in her human form.

Human Phase

Throughout this phase, the player squad will be fighting Xera in human form, along with occasionally spawning White Mantle soldiers, and attacks cast by her floating illusions. With regards to the base attacks of Xera herself, the only attack which players need to be wary of, is an attack identical to that of McLeod the Silent, which resembles  Blurred  Blurred Frenzy and stacks a very high amount of  Confusion.

Throughout this phase, Bloodstone Fragments will spawn in each of the 12 segments in a clockwise order. Each fragment will have a very wide aoe around it, increasing the stacks of  Derangement of each players standing within it. While Xera stands inside a bloodstone fragment aoe she will constantly convert conditions into boons, greatly empowering her attacks and causing players to potentially kill themselves with  Retaliation damage. One of the tactics is to destroy these fragments as they spawn and have the player with the highest toughness aka tank chase after the forming fragments, making sure to stay out of their area of effect. Standing inside their AoE while they are destroyed removes 10 stacks of  Derangement if the player has the Forsaken Magic Mastery. As time evolves, the tactic has now changed and in all raid groups, the tank just has to move to bring Xera to specific positions, ignoring the fragments to maximise the DPS. As for this first human phase, the fragments can be largely ignored unless the group has insanely low dps.

Xera will regularly have an active breakbar. While she is in breakbar phase she will send out attacks randomly around her (similar to Vale Guardian) and take greatly reduced damage. The longer she stays with an active breakbar, the faster the next set of Bloodstone Fragments will spawn. Breaking her bar quickly is therefore extremely important.

Additionally to the Bloodstone Fragments spawning around the arena, there are three other main mechanics players need to be aware of. The first is a purple beam of light landing in the exact center of the arena shooting out projectiles. Being hit by a projectile creates a small lifting AoE below the player that generates  Derangement stacks.

There is as well an attack behaving similar to the lift mechanic of the Mesmer's Elite skill Gravity Well where Xera will cover half the platform in a red blurry area, every 30 seconds after Xera spawns on the main platform. Players remaining inside will be lifted after a few seconds, taking heavy damage and gaining 25 stacks of  Derangement. Patterns may be skipped if they occur at the same time as the special action key attack (see below).

Occasionally the squad will be prompted with a message saying "<Squad Member> has harnessed ambient magic". The named squad member will receive a special action key effect, which they can cast as a ground targeted area of effect skill. All players must stand within the bubble as Xera's powerful attack hits the platform. Any players caught outside the bubble will be immediately defeated. If this is active while a half platform AoE would happen that AoE is skipped.

Once Xera reaches 50% health, she will vanish and players will be prompted to ley line glide to the southern-most platform to continue on to the next phase. Players failing to ley glide to the next platform will fall to their death.

Second Platform Phase

For this phase, players will need to destroy a Bloodstone Fragment on every platform surrounding the main central platform. After a Bloodstone Fragment is destroyed, a ley line will appear between the current and next platform, allowing players to rotate across all six platforms.

At the start of this phase each platform, with the exception of the southern most platform, will be modified randomly into on of many configurations. Although most platform configurations provide no real threat to players, squad members should beware of the occasional configuration where the ley line ends right in the middle of a wall. If such a situation occurs, players will need to glide either to the left or right opening in the wall.

As soon as a player steps on a platform, AOEs will begin appearing on the ground. Although they do not deal significant damage, they do, over time, apply a significant amount of conditions. Additionally these attacks have the option to daze a player; an effect which is deadly to a player jumping off an edge and hoping to glide. As such it is important for players to be mindful of these attacks prior to them jumping off the platform, and to be ready to re-deploy their glider should it be forcefully closed due to a daze effect. Players that fail to glide from the 5th to the 6th platform may attempt to glide to the not yet manifested middle as being inside the main platform when it manifests will place the player in the middle of the platform.

Once all six Bloodstone Fragments destroyed, players will be prompted to once again glide to the central platform in order to continue their fight with Xera.

Human Phase + Second Puzzle Phase

This second phase will behave almost identically to the first human phase in terms of mechanics. The only two noticeable changes in mechanics are that the Bloodstone Fragments now spawn in a counterclockwise order, and the platform covering attack will have a new pattern shown in the image on the right. The cooldown of this attack is shortened to 25 seconds as well.

At 40% Health, the squad will be prompted with the message "Xera is teleporting squad members to a floating tower". A few seconds later, 5 random squad members (excluding the player with the highest toughness) will be teleported to a platform. They will there have 2 minutes  to complete the same core-pushing puzzle as at the start of the fight. Naturally, the puzzle has to be completed as soon as possible, otherwise the remaining players on the main platform will be cleaved down by overwhelming soldiers and illusions. Additionally, there is a portal available which can be used by only one player to return to the main platform immediately. Usually the main healer will go back to the platform if all healers got teleported. The rest of the players will be returned to the main platform shortly after they complete the puzzle.

At 20% health, Xera will once again teleport players to another platform where they will need to complete the pressure-plate puzzle. Players returning from both puzzles will have the  Hero's Return effect, which will shield them from damage they might take from spawning back on the main platform. However, you can still get hit by the projectiles emitting from the purple beam, so make sure to avoid them.

Once Xera is defeated, players will be lifted and dropped down into the Temple of Awakening where players can find Xera's Chest and information on the White Mantle activities.



Bastion of the Penitent is the second raid, consisting of one stand-alone wing. Scholar Glenna found a portal in the wake of the explosion of Bloodstone Fen. Finding themselves in a mysterious area far north of central Tyria, players will discover the mysteries in this unexplored fort and encounter Cairn the Indomitable, Mursaat Overseer, Samarog, and Deimos.

It was released alongside the Living World chapter The Head of the Snake on February 8, 2017.

Cairn the Indomitable
At the start of the raid, players will pass through a waterfall and be granted the special action skill  Celestial  Celestial Dash. This mobility skill has a very similar speed and animation to the Druid's  Ancestral  Ancestral Grace. Shortly afterwards, glide over to a circular platform where Cairn the Indomitable awaits. Cairn the Indomitable will only spawn on the platform after a player has talked to Glenna by the entrance of the raid.

Health: 19,999,998 (19,999,998 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 8 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged — Players cannot cleanse Unseen Burden.
Core Mechanics
Unseen  Unseen Burden: Players gain one stack of Unseen Burden every second. Unseen Burden slows player movement by 1% for each stack, up to 99 stacks. You can reduce the number of stacks by successfully navigating the green circle mechanics. (see below) As the fight progresses, normal movement will become almost completely ineffective if these stacks are not removed. However dodges, mobility skills and the  Celestial  Celestial Dash special skill are unhindered; use these to keep out of danger during the fight.
Spatial Manipulation: Cairn will periodically charge up and release a devastating Spatial Manipulation attack, damaging and lifting players up into the air while adding 25 stacks of Unseen Burden. To avoid this, green circles will form around the arena which can protect players inside from the attack. Successfully using a green circle will also help players by instead removing 25 stacks of Unseen Burden. Your character will gain Gaze  Gaze Avoidance if you have fulfilled the green circle's requirements. There are 3 general patterns of green circles:
Numbered in Set Positions - Each green circle is in a fixed position and has a number of stars above it (1, 1, 2, 2, 4). The number of stars corresponds to the minimum number of players required to be in the circle such that its protection takes effect. Certain circles will stop spawning depending on which 25% of its health the boss is at. Generally, the majority of players should head for the biggest circle while anyone cursed with Shared Agony can take a small circle for themselves.
Energy Surge - Cairn teleports to 5 different, set locations based on the percentage of its health. Standing between his teleport points, which can be detected by seeing a rift of disturbed air or by a directional arrow at his feet, will cause a moderate amount of damage and a long range  Knockback. Above 50%, Cairn will also spawn a guaranteed circle when he lands at the center.
Sword - Green circles will spawn around the arena after Cairn completes its Orbital Sweep attack; there is no minimum on the number of players in a given circle.
Here are some helpful images to indicate the patterns of green circles:[1]
Shared  Shared Agony: Starting at 7:37 and every 20 seconds after that, the furthest player that does not already have it will gain the Shared  Shared Agony debuff, taking 10% of their maximum HP as damage to themselves per tick (~every 3 seconds) and creating a red AoE effect around themselves which deals damage to nearby allies. The debuff lasts for one minute.
There can be at most 3 players with the debuff, and once a 4th player gains the debuff, the person who has the debuff the longest loses theirs.
Downed players don't receive damage from Shared Agony and if the agonized player himself is downed, no one in the circle suffers damage.
Every three seconds, the game checks if there are other players in the red circle. The player closest to the agonized player will receive 25% of his max HP as damage. The closest person to Target 1 will then suffer 50% max HP. And the closest person to Target 2 will suffer 75% max HP. All aforementioned players would need to be within the red circle and not already be counted previously for taking damage from that circle. Any other person inside the red circle will suffer no damage at all from Shared Agony.[2]
Players can take damage from multiple Shared Agony circles at once (e.g. 10% of the maximum health from their own circle, and another 50% from being part of a damage chain in another player's circle).
Overview
A massive jade construct, Cairn is a rather durable foe. The boss fight has no clear phases, although Cairn will gain more dangerous attacks and use them more frequently as its health drops.

Cairn's auto-attack, Impact, is to swing with its right arm followed by its left arm in a two-part arc towards the furthest player. Cairn will usually follow up with a Meteor Swarm by swinging its left hand back, throwing a spiraling fan of 9 bloodstone projectiles over a 120° arc at the furthest player; these projectiles will travel to the edge of the platform and knock players back for a short distance. This attack can be dealt with in two different ways, kiting and standing close.

Kiting: One player, typically a druid or another with high self-sustain to tank constant agony, stands near the edge of the platform to always be the target of Meteor Swarm. The projectiles are much easier to avoid and/or block at this far distance.
Close: Staying within the green and black outlined symbol on the platform allows players to avoid being hit by the projectiles generated from Meteor Swarm. Additionally, if all non-agony players stack in a single location, there is enough room for the three agony players to stand close enough to also avoid being hit by this attack (see image).
Every 4 seconds, Cairn will create 3 circles of swirling energy next to it. Once fully charged, players inside will suffer Displacement and be teleported anywhere in the arena within a 1000 unit radius (similar to the Vale Guardian's Unstable Magic Spike/blue circles). The teleport combined with the knockback of Meteor Swarm can easily knock players off the platform, instantly defeating them. Players in melee range of Cairn should make sure they stay off of the circles, and anyone hit should use mobility skills and dodges to get away from the arena's edges. The bloodstone clouds are projectiles, and can be destroyed or converted. Players should be careful not to reflect the projectiles, as they can hit other teammates instead.

Starting at 7:37 and every 20 seconds after that, the furthest player that does not already have it will gain the Shared  Shared Agony debuff, taking damage over time and creating a red AoE effect around themselves which deals damage to nearby allies. There can be at most 3 players with the debuff, and once a 4th player gains the debuff, the person who has the debuff the longest loses theirs. Afflicted players should try to stay close to healers, while keeping a small distance.

In later parts of the fight, Cairn may extend its arm into a sword blade, and shortly afterwards do an Orbital Sweep around the arena; the position of the sword depends on the 25% of health the boss is at, starting from the south and moving counter-clockwise 90°. The initial slam of its arm as a sword blade will knockback any players on its edge, and the Orbital Sweep around the arena will knockback any players hit by it. Since the attack is highly telegraphed, players should take care to dodge the sweep as it passes over them.

Starting at 25% health or lower, Cairn may also begin to use Gravity Wave after Orbital Sweep, a black tide of energy that ripples outwards and pushes players back towards the arena edges. Players next to Cairn in the middle will be unaffected, but caught players should attempt to dodge back towards the center.

If he is not killed in 8 minutes, he becomes Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged. Unseen  Unseen Burden will no longer be able to be removed or reduced.

Challenge Mote
In addition to the above mechanics, players must use  Celestial  Celestial Dash once every 10 seconds, or else the skill will automatically activate for the maximum range in the direction the player is facing. The timer for doing this is denoted by an effect called  Countdown. Furthermore, when players reach 99 stacks of Unseen  Unseen Burden, they will become petrified and lose access to their skills. However, they can still use  Celestial  Celestial Dash to a green circle to remove stacks.

Mursaat Overseer
Health: 22,021,440 (30,000,000 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 6 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged — Increases damage dealt by 200%. No longer able to Claim back tiles.
After defeating Cairn, the miasma below the arena will clear and players are free to walk into the bastion proper. In Death Row, there is a pile of rubble next to the wall with a broken shovel nearby. Heading west will allow you to find a shovel on the ground, and using that on the rubble will open the way into a courtyard, the Recreation Sector that the next encounter takes place in.

The fight takes place on a 'game board', with half the space as brown 'friendly' tiles and the other half as orange 'enemy' tiles, which deal 3,500 damage per second to players stepping on them. There are three pillars of light on the friendly side of the arena. Interacting with one of them will give the player a special action key and remove the pillar from the arena. Players can only have one of the pillars of light's effects at a time. Once three separate players interact with them, leaving no pillars of light behind, the fight begins.

The players who used the pillars of light at the start will gain a special action skill.

 Mursaat Overseer's  Dispel removes the orange shield on a Jade Scout or Soldier. This should be used whenever off cooldown on any shielded target, with priority on Scouts/Soldiers directly next to the squad.
  Claim can retake an orange enemy tile, turning them brown and safe to stand in again. Aiming the claim skill close to the edge of a tile may result in failure, not claiming the tile.
  Protect creates a circular zone of radius 180 for 5 seconds which turns players invulnerable to damage for the duration that the bubble is up; this includes the spikes, and is the only way to negate them. This skill must be timed well to be helpful, and also has a long cooldown of 180 seconds so it effectively is usable once per fight.
If any of the players which took an effect die during the fight, the pillar of light will respawn, and a different player can pick up the effect mid-fight to continue using it.

Overview
The Mursaat Overseer itself is a statue game piece, which simply fixates on the player who took Claim and follows them around. Players will have to deal with the room's various hazards while destroying it.

The most dangerous mechanic is the spike floor. Patches of the floor will glow slightly with small green spikes. After a delay huge spears will come out, instantly defeating anyone inside (with no downed state). The spikes cannot be avoided by conventional means; the only exception is the Protect skill. These traps follow a sequence of different arrangements, which become more difficult as the boss loses health, with every 25% health threshold changing the pattern (see graphic).

On the enemy side of the board, four Jade Scouts (smaller game pieces, or 'pawns') will appear and start moving down across the arena. Occasionally they may also gain an orange shield that makes them invulnerable, until it is removed by Dispel. Any tile that they first move over becomes orange, damaging players that stay on them. Bringing their health to 0 will stop them temporarily, but they will regenerate to full health and start moving to the other side of the board again.

Upon reaching the other side of the board, the Jade Scouts will transform into active threats. Jade Soldiers will fixate on the player who took Protect and attack the party, deal constant AoE damage around themselves while applying  Poisoned,  Torment, and  Slow, and will explode on death for high damage. They will still claim tiles and gain shields during this time. Since Jade Soldiers claim any tile they move over, if a Soldier will soon arrive at the tile players are on, it is recommended that the player with Claim wait until the tile gets claimed by the Jade Soldier before using Claim on it to turn it friendly again. Once a Soldier is defeated, a Scout will replace it on the far side of the room and begin moving across after some time.

Challenge Mote
The Mursaat Overseer gains roughly 36% HP compared to the normal mode (30 million instead of 22 million).

In addition to the above mechanics, certain sections of the floor will light up blue in a pattern at set intervals of 30 seconds. If players do not stand in these within the 4 seconds they are lit, they die. Additionally, each tile is different from player to player, i.e. client-side. While multiple players can have the same tile pattern, it is unlikely that the whole group will receive the same pattern. There are four possible patterns (as indicated by the adjacent graphic) which always have one blue tile in every row, column, quadrant and the four center tiles. This means that a blue square is (diagonally) adjacent to any possible square a player is standing in and that there is also always a blue field that has no spears in it even though it may be far away.

Blue patterns are announced every 30 seconds (roughly at x:33/x:03) starting at 5:33 and go off ~4 seconds later (x:29/x:59) which is simultaneous to the spikes in the first phase. Contrary to spikes, their timing is independent on the damage though which means it will be unlikely to have spikes and blues at the same time in the later phases.

Protection can NOT save people from dying for not standing in a blue field. If spikes coincide perfectly with the blue fields, one can drop the protect bubble on the center of the arena and cover all four middle tiles.


Samarog
Health: 29,493,000 (40,000,000 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 11 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged — Deals 500% damage.
A door will prevent entry into Samarog's arena. Interacting with the door gives players Gift of True  Gift of True Sight, allowing them to find keys in rubble piles in the rooms nearby. To open the door, 4 players with keys need to interact with door again in no particular order. After the cutscene, approaching Samarog will begin the fight.

Alternatively, a thief can interact with the door to pick the lock, skipping the search for keys.

Phase 1 (100% - 66% health)
Samarog's arena is lined with spikes, which instantly kill anyone standing inside them. Many of its attacks will knockback players hit, making it very important to dodge attacks and also take note of positioning.

Samarog has two primary attacks. It will deal two spear sweeps in quick succession, and getting caught in both can send players flying. It will also use Impaling Stab, lifting up its spears before smashing the ground, dealing extreme damage to anyone on the point. This also releases a shockwave that travels outward, knocking back players hit; the shockwave can be dodged through, but can also be jumped over (similar to Tequatl's waves). The swipe attack is always 180 degrees from the currently fixated person.

Orange circles will also periodically appear throughout the arena. This indicates Spear Impact will strike there shortly afterwards, which deals damage and leaves a Spear of Aggression or Revulsion at the point which applies conditions to players nearby. The squad should try to keep some sections of the arena clear of these spears.

Whenever Samarog reaches 10% health intervals, it uses Brutalize, leaping to and disabling the fixated player while it beats them up. The remaining players must break the defiance bar to stop the attack. If the pinned player loses all of their health, or Samarog's defiance bar is not broken within a set time, they are defeated without a downed state. Samarog takes 100% less damage and immune to new conditions being applied to him while his defiance bar is up. Once the bar is broken, the furthest player will become fixated.

Phase 2
Upon reaching the 66% health interval, Samarog will become invulnerable and charge into an alcove just outside the spike walls. To make it return, the squad will have to fight both the jotun Guldhem and the human Rigom, both of whom will fixate on different squad members. Guldhem redirects all damage and conditions he takes to Rigom. Once Rigom reaches 1% health, he will use Anguished Wail, which if it hits Samarog will cause Guldhem to become vulnerable to damage for a short time. Rigom will then heal to 100%. Once Guldhem is defeated, Rigom can be killed normally.

The difficulty of this phase comes with keeping the two mini-bosses apart. If their orange shields are connecting they will gain buffs over time; Guldhem deals more damage, and Rigom gains more health. To avoid this, and to guarantee the ability to damage Guldhem, it is recommended to use  Knockback and  Immobile, or similar effects, to put Rigom into Samarog's alcove, and keep him there until Guldhem is dead.

Phase 3 (66% - 33% health)
Once the mini-bosses are defeated, Samarog will charge back into the arena and resume his previous attacks. However, a new hazard is introduced in Inevitable Betrayal. Periodically, a random player will be surrounded in a large filling orange circle. Another player will gain a small green circle. The green circle player must stand within the center of the orange circle, or that player will take severe damage. The pair should also try and position themselves away from the rest of the squad, as the orange circle will also deal extreme damage to other allies inside it.

If there are too many spears in the arena, Samarog will also start recalling them to his location, and the spears deal heavy damage as they travel back to him. Their path will be indicated by arrows on the field.

Samarog's knockbacks will also increase in strength and cause long duration cripple.

Phase 4
Upon reaching 33% health, Samarog will charge back into its alcove and summon Guldhem and Rigom once again. They can be fought in the same method as before. However, Inevitable Betrayal will continue to take effect and players should stay alert.

Phase 5 (33% - 0% health)
With the pair defeated again, Samarog will return for its last stand. It gains a new attack, Bludgeon, which has similar animations to the previous shockwave attack but is executed much quicker. Its knockbacks will also become very dangerous, as they increase in distance knocked back and cause  Stun.

If the boss is not defeated within 11 minutes, it will gain Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged, increasing its damage by 500%.

Challenge Mote
Samarog gains roughly 10 million HP extra over normal mode. (40 million in CM vs 30 million normal)

There are no new mechanics to deal with, however existing ones are much more challenging.

Inevitable Betrayal begins from phase 1 of the fight, and now immobilizes the person with the larger AoE. In addition, a spear will spawn on top of the person with the larger AoE when it is fully charged. This means that the person with the smaller circle will need to run to the person with the larger circle. The rest of the group, especially the tank, should try to move away from the aoe and follow the tanking pattern.

Spear Impact now follows a set pattern, and the Spears it spawns cannot be removed by the players. They will be pulled in by Samarog once all 12 of them are on the field.

Due to the extra health and slightly advanced mechanics, it is recommended to get Samarog to 66% by approximately 8:30, and finish the phase at 33% by 3:00, to avoid reaching the Enrage phase.


Deimos
Health: 35,981,456 (42,000,000 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 12 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged - Increases damage dealt by 200%.
Passing through the collapsed walls after Samarog, players will find an isolated floating platform with a Shackled Prisoner on it and deadly miasma below. There is a short staircase on the closest side that players can glide to while waiting to start the encounter, which begins when any player approaches the prisoner. The encounter fails if the prisoner is defeated at any point. Standing near the gargoyles will cause your character to be  Feared towards the center, so be careful.

It is recommended that your squad utilize a tank, a hand kiter, and an oil kiter. Those 3 will generally stay on the main platform, while the other 7 continue to take green circle teleportation.

Initial Phase
Images of Greed and Pride will begin walking toward the Shackled Prisoner; if they reach him they will deal damage to him. The images of Greed deal a small amount and the images of Pride deal a large amount of damage. They are vulnerable to soft crowd control which can slow them down as players attack them. After a short delay one player will randomly be marked by an emptying green circle; when it is empty all players standing on it will be teleported to a demonic realm. From there players can break the chains to the north, east, south, and west while Deimos tries to knock them off the platform with a slow hammer swing telegraphed by an orange triangle AoE. While in the demonic realm, players will constantly gain stacks of Unseen Burden (Deimos).png ?? which decreases player movement speed with each stack similarly to Unseen Burden. As soon as a chain breaks the players will be teleported back. The phase continues until all four chains are broken, freeing the prisoner. Ideally, a group will run condition builds so that the chains will continue to take damage even after the players have been teleported back to the main platform.

Second Phase
After the chains are broken, Deimos will teleport to the mortal realm to stop the players from assisting Saul. Saul throws a banner that lasts 20 seconds to the squad member furthest away from Deimos. The banner heals everyone within its range for 5% of their maximum HP every second. Saul will also cast Unnatural  Unnatural Signet (lasts 10 seconds) on Deimos 4 to 5 seconds after he appears, each minute. Deimos periodically uses his Annihilate skill - a powerful knockback that cascades from the front over the sides to the back of himself. Deimos will also periodically cast Soul Feast - grasping hands underneath the player that is farthest from the boss. If Deimos walks over these grasping hands, he will gain  Devour stacks. It is advised to have a player with channeled blocks and high healing "kite" the hands near the edge of the platform. This lets everyone else not worry as much about movement or getting knocked back.

At 90% health, Deimos begins to use Mind Crush, a powerful attack that is channeled for 5 seconds before dealing lethal damage to everyone, placing Unseen Burden (Deimos).png Weak Minded for 10 seconds on everyone that is hit. This skill can be completely mitigated with the protective bubble from Saul, by blocking it, or by using "Rebound!". Saul casts Form Up and Advance!.png Form Up and Advance! on every squad member within his 1,200 unit range for the duration of the Mind Crush channel. Deimos casts Mind Crush every 35-40 seconds.

Third Phase
Starting at 75% health, Deimos starts placing Demonic Tears on the platform every 15 seconds. These tears shoot bloodstone projectiles every few seconds. A squad member can walk over its white effect circle to close it, gaining Tear  Tear Instability for 1 minute, which prevents closing another demonic tear for the duration. The affected player will also have a Tear Instability (overhead icon).png skull above their head, not visible to other players.

At 75%, one player (except the tank or hand-kiter) will randomly be marked by an emptying green circle that teleports everyone standing in it to the demonic realm. This time, a copy of Saul with the ability text "Thief" will appear in the middle of the platform. This copy channels a skill that steals all boons from the squad if its cc bar is not broken by the players. He will try to channel this multiple times, so try not to burn every cc skill on the initial cast. When the copy of Saul reaches 50% health, everyone within the demonic realm, including the copy of Saul, will be teleported back to the main platform. With that, the grasping hands now start moving towards Deimos, but disappear after 5 seconds.

At 60% health, Deimos starts using Rapid Decay (Also known as oil/black circles), an AoE field that is telegraphed 3 seconds as an orange effect field. Rapid Decay deals damage and expands its radius every time someone is hit by its effect until ~80% of the platform is covered. Deimos uses Rapid Decay every 15 seconds and the fields disappear after 30 seconds. Deimos targets the squad member closest to the boss, excluding the tank. It is best to assign someone to this role.

Fourth Phase
When Deimos reaches 50% health, one player (except the tank or hand-kiter) will randomly be marked by an emptying green circle that again teleports everyone standing in it to the demonic realm. This time, a copy of Saul with the ability text "Gambler" will appear. It will periodically disappear and summon 3 clones, placed in direction of the previously destroyed chains. The squad members need to defeat the "real" copy of Saul, which can be identified by what weapon he is wielding: clones wield Prisoner's Treasured Bough, while the non-clone wields Staff of Matthias. When the copy of Saul reaches 50% health, everyone within the demonic realm, including the copy of Saul, will be teleported back to the main platform. The grasping hands start moving towards Deimos, but disappear after 5 seconds.

At 40% health, the images of Greed and Pride from the initial phase start appearing again and walk towards Saul. They explode upon reaching Saul, dealing 2% and 25% of the maximum HP respectively to Saul and anybody in the vicinity.

Fifth Phase
When Deimos reaches 25% health, one player (except the tank or hand-kiter) will randomly be marked by an emptying green circle that teleports everyone standing in it to the demonic realm. This time, a copy of Saul with the ability text "Drunkard" will appear. It will periodically teleport players on the platform around if its cc bar is not broken. The time frame to break him in this phase is considerably smaller than his "Thief" phase. When the copy of Saul reaches 50% health, everyone within the demonic realm, including the copy of Saul, will be teleported back to the main platform. The grasping hands start moving towards Deimos, but disappear after 5 seconds.

Final Phase
At 10% health, Deimos becomes invulnerable and teleports everyone to the demonic realm. Deimos now appears as a world boss/structure at the side of the platform. He no longer uses Annihilate and Mind Crush, but he will continue creating hands and Rapid Decay (oil) circles as before. He begins using an auto-attack chain of slamming the ground with his right fist, his left fist, and then both fists. Each of the single slams will knockback nearby players away, and the attack with both fists will create a cascading shockwave that knocks back multiple times unless dodged. Once Deimos is defeated, players and Saul will be teleported back to the Solitary Confinement platform and the prison will be cleared of miasma, allowing further exploration and investigation of the area.

Challenge Mote
Deimos gains roughly 6 million HP over normal mode (42 million CM vs 36 million normal).
Saul is no longer a part of the fight and cannot help, therefore the following must be dealt with:
Saul will not create his ward in the center and thus Mind Crush must be blocked by other means such as Aegis.
Since Saul remains trapped, he cannot be healed, so it is vital to kill as many Prides and Greeds as possible before they can damage him.
Unnatural Signet will not be cast on Deimos, so overall damage dealt by the squad will be lower.
The healing banner will not be placed on the squad member furthest away from Deimos, so the hand kiter must be prepared for extra pressure.



Hall of Chains is the fifth raid introduced into the game. Vicious undead are murdering Grenth's followers in Tyria for unknown reasons. Following the evidence will lead players into the Underworld, where mysterious powers are clashing to determine the fates of the living and the dead.

It was released alongside the Living World chapter Daybreak on November 28th, 2017.

Soulless Horror
Health: 35,391,600 (Same HP if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 8 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged - Increases damage dealt by 200%.
In the first encounter, you have to defeat the Soulless Horror. After its defeat, it is revealed that it was the possessed body of Desmina, who quickly reclaims it back.

Overview
To start the fight, both the red and green runes must first be claimed. The two players that claim the runes will receive Exile's  Exile's Embrace, which will grant them the special action skill  Rally the  Issue Challenge (default: -) (45s cooldown). The last player to use the special action skill will be  Fixated, temporarily serving as the tank. Every 12 seconds (starting at 7:54), the current Fixated player will gain a stack of  Necrosis, increasing all damage received by 40% per stack. Not receiving a stack for 30 seconds results in losing all stacks.

At 90%, 66% and 33% Boss HP, the outer circle of the arena will become orange and vanish 3 seconds later, reducing its size.

Minions
Elite Flesh Wurms
Flesh wurms are present at the start of the fight all over the outer part of the platform that randomly spit projectiles at players for medium damage.
Surging Souls
These wall-like AoEs slowly move over the platform during the entire fight, starting in cardinal directions (a wall takes 20 seconds to cross the entire platform). Touching them will instantly kill a player and their damage cannot be avoided. They are indicated on the minimap as red horned skulls Red .
They consist of segments, one segment having the width of 1/5 of the platform's diameter. Above 90% Boss HP, a wall will consist of 2 segments, below 90% it will consist of 3 segments and below 33% it will increase to 4 segments. The wall cannot cover the entire length of the platform, there will always be a gap to run through.
The walls start to appear at 7:50 timer remaining. Above 66%, the walls will spawn every 18 seconds, below 66% they will spawn every 16 seconds and below 33%, every 13 seconds. The timer is however reset at certain HP thresholds: 90%, 66% and 33%. At those thresholds, the next wall will spawn 10 seconds after the respective HP is reached.
Any currently active walls instantly disappear when the boss gains a breakbar.
Spinning Scythes
These swirling scythes slowly traverse the platform throughout the fight atop a small red AoE circle. They travel in random directions but will always move in a straight line. Being hit by their AoE corrupts all the player's boons into conditions.
Tormented Dead
These creatures with the appearance of giant Flesh Golems aggro on the off-tank (the player with Exile's Embrace that is not currently Fixated). They slowly lose health but are also highly susceptible to damage and CC. Upon their death they spawn a red AoE field similar to Plaguelands that corrupts all boons into conditions. The Tormented Dead spawn every 20 seconds, starting 20 seconds after 90% and the red field vanishes one minute after their death. They can be pushed further outside than the edge of the visible platform, resulting in less area covered by their AoE field.
Boss Attacks
Vortex Slash
The Soulless Horror casts a filling circle that deals damage once it is full followed quickly by a ring outside of that circle that immediately damages anyone in it. Not getting hit by this attack and finishing the encounter awards the Achievement Necro Dancer. Dodging inwards when the inner circle completes is the easiest way of avoiding this attack. The inner circle deals less damage than the outer ring.
Quad Slash
4 cone shaped AoE starting from the boss that will cause damage after 3 seconds; this is always followed by the same pattern rotated by 45 degrees. This attack only becomes available after the the timer is at 7:30.
Death Bloom
8 cones going outwards from the boss, starting at 66% HP. This attack seems to be on a cooldown slightly shorter than 30 seconds but she won't interrupt other attacks to cast it. The cones deal medium damage after 3 seconds and contrary to the cones known from Arkk it is not possible to stand between two of them unharmed if you are close to the boss. This attack is followed by a Defiance bar attack every other time (in which orange arcs swirl around her person) that will fear everyone off the platform if not broken.
Slice/Corrupt the Living + Fingers of the Dead
The Soulless Horror auto-attacks with one of these two skills. Both will spawn Fingers of the Dead in matching patterns.
With Slice, the Soulless Horror charges up an overhead hammer smash in the direction of the tank, and brings it down in a frontal cone of green flame. As it charges up, small orange circles will appear within that cone; once the AoE reaches these circles, each will sprout as Fingers of the Dead.
With Corrupt the Living, the Soulless Horror brings the hammer back over its right shoulder and swings counter-clockwise in a slicing arc about its body, applying  Torment and  Poisoned. Small orange circles will spawn in a large ring outside the radius of the attack, which will sprout as Fingers of the Dead.
Fingers of the Dead will deal damage and corrupt one stack of boons on anyone standing in their AoE when they explode. The boon corrupted will be the boon most recently applied to the character.
General Strategy
Jump or glide to the platform and land close to the initial set of flesh wurms to take out. Have the tank and group circle around together and eliminate all flesh wurms. You should be just about done clearing them by the time she hits 90% health, causing the first Tormented Dead golems to spawn 20 seconds later and from then on every 20 seconds. They spawn in the center and move towards the current off-tank. A couple players should have knockbacks or pulls available to move the Tormented away from the group before they die and explode. Ranger's Point-Blank Shot and Glyph of the Tides (Druid) are very good in this capacity, though other classes may have their own skills to bring. Those knocking the Tormented back should try and knock them towards the edge of the platform or past it. Continue moving to avoid walls. At 66%, be prepared to break her Defiance bar as she casts Howling Death. You have just shy of 7 seconds to break her bar before the attack finishes. If not you are given Deeply  Unbridled Fear and Fear. Even if this doesn't cause you to fall off the edge you are killed shortly afterwards. Then be ready to break it about every minute afterwards (she gets a breakbar every second time after she uses her 8-cone attack "Death Bloom"). Continue moving, damaging, knocking back, and breaking as the platform slowly shrinks.

Tips
The two tanks will find their jobs easier if they can both communicate when to bounce fixation from each other, whether through voice programs or pinging the effect.
Marking the cardinal directions with squad markers will allow tanks and others to give directional call-outs, as "move left" becomes rather arbitrary when everyone is moving in a circle.
Try to explode golems away from the center, as the platform will continue to shrink, meaning that in order to avoid walls, you'll typically need some room in the center.
Scourges can bring Sand Swell as a panic button, using it to avoid a wall if badly placed.
Condition clear is a must in this fight. Druids can combo their Lunar Impact and Seed of Life to cause area condition clear.
It's everyone's responsibility to be aware of golems and walls. If a golem explodes near the group, be ready to dodge away so you don't get corrupted.
Challenge Mote
With the Challenge Mote activated, stacks on tanks will build up faster, the flesh wurms will respawn periodically throughout the fight, and the platform loses an additional ring at the start of the fight, resulting in less room to move.


River of Souls
Overview
Players need to protect Desmina as she traverses the River of Souls – a path to the next encounter. Desmina herself receives damage from enemies and mechanics and can be healed. The River constantly deals substantial damage to players with Soul  Soul Siphon unless they are protected by Desmina's protective dome. Players will find they may have to periodically leave the bubble to clear various mechanics.

The following mechanics will occur at predefined sections of the path, often simultaneously:

Mechanics
Staying inside Desmina's protective dome grants Desmina's  Desmina's Protection.
Throughout the whole encounter, venturing outside of Desmina's protective dome results in gaining Soul  Soul Siphon, which damages every second. It gets removed by returning to the dome.
Spatial Rifts slowly pull players towards them. They have 10 stacks of Primed  Rift Force. Hitting them removes a stack. Once the buff is gone the rifts stop pulling. After a while they refresh their stacks. Multi-hit attacks are very helpful to quickly remove these as a threat.
Players randomly receive "time bombs", small expanding AoEs with inner and outer borders. As the AoE reaches inner border, it detaches from the assigned player and stays on the path as a mine, expanding for another second. As the AoE reaches the outer border, the mine explodes, dealing moderate damage and stunning players for 2 seconds. Move behind or to the side of the group and dodge out right as AoE has passed inner border to avoid dropping these in the way of the group. This AoE can also be used to damage enemies.
Wall-like AoEs, similar to the previous encounter, will move along and across the path. Instead of instantly killing players these "walls" only down them. Quickly destroy any Spatial Rifts if they appear and carefully walk around the "walls". Superspeed, teleports (shadowsteps) and portals can be used to simplify the task.
Players get a chance for one "extra life" – their first death during the encounter turns them into a spirit. The player will be given a short time to gather enough purple orbs (similar to the end boss, Dhuum's mechanic) scattered along the path. If they succeed, they will be fully revived and receive the Fractured  Fractured Spirit effect.
Foes
Hollowed Bombers run towards Desmina, exploding near her. They gain a defiance bar during the short channeling, and breaking it cancels the explosion. If they successfully explode, they will die.
Enervators will disable Desmina's protective dome as soon as she comes within their range, killing them restores protection. It is recommended to start damaging them ahead of time.
Spirit Hordes are swarms of small ghosts chasing the group and damaging them. They spawn from open Spatial Rifts.
General Strategy
The entire squad could stay within Desmina's dome and clear mechanics as they reach them. Most of the playerbase, however, takes an easier approach:

Two or three players stay with Desmina to grant her healing,  Aegis and Super  Superspeed (if not possible,  Swiftness instead). The rest of the squad should move together before the encounter starts by using Blink (Jackal).png Blink three times and then Pounce (Jackal).png Pounce (with Bolster Allies) to grant  Barrier. At this point the players who stay back with Desmina should talk to her to start the encounter.

The forward team should have multiple healers to outsustain the "aura damage" and some DPS to clear out the Enervators. They should always be ahead of Desmina's bubble to have enough time to clear the Enervators before they can reach her, which would make her stop and potentially take unnecessary damage.

The players who stay with Desmina have to take care of granting  Aegis for the Hollowed Bombers' explosions, speeding her up with Super  Superspeed (or  Swiftness) and heal her if any mechanics were to hit her. These players should pay attention when placing the "time bombs" so they don't accidentally kill each other, especially when there are walls nearby. Since Spatial Rifts are usually not taken care of, gradually more and more Spirit Hordes will follow them, and could strip the Aegis from Desmina that is supposed to prevent the heavy damage from the Hollowed Bombers' explosions. To prevent this, they should place the time bombs on top of the ads to clear them out. Additionally, as a safety net they should save burst heals for the second half of the River.


Statues of Grenth
These 3 mini bosses must all be slain in the same instance to receive their corresponding reward.

Statue of Darkness
Overview
This encounter consists of two bosses, the Eye of Judgment (north) and the Eye of Fate (south), that need to be killed within 15 seconds from one another. Both Eyes have the same behaviour and each one has their own little labyrinth separated by a higher rock ledge that has Light Orbs spawning on top of it.

The Eyes are untargettable and invulnerable to damage unless they are Exposed (Statue of Darkness).png Exposed by a light orb nearby lighting up the area. Once an Eye reaches 85% health, if either is left without a source of light for over 35 seconds, it will start pulsating a high damage aura on all the arena (it also reaches the other labyrinth). They can do two different projectile based attacks, one of which locks a beam of light onto a player and pulsates significant damage for 5 seconds unless line of sight is broken (behind a wall). They teleport within their respective labyrinths and  Fear everyone within line of sight when they reach 85, 70, 55, 40, 25 or 10% of their total health. When an Eye reaches 70% health, it will summon a Minotaur in their labyrinth. If an Eye is killed but the other one doesn't die within 15 seconds, it will heal itself back up to 9%.

The Eyes are susceptible to "hard" control effects, so they will not attack, teleport or summon the minotaur if they are  Stunned. Stunning an Eye while it's casting an attack will interrupt it, if it's stunned through its 70% health threshold it will not spawn a minotaur and if it stops being stunned after any of the health thresholds for the teleport, it will immediately teleport away. Stunning an Eye while it teleports will not stop it, it will just appear somewhere in the maze stunned.

On the middle ledge, there are 3 light orbs that respawn every 11 seconds after being picked up. Do note that the encounter will start once a light is grabbed. They function like a bundle, grant Torch  Light Carrier and have the following skills:

The first skill,  Throw  Throw Light, allows you to aim and throw the orb. The second skill,   Flare, is a channeled explosion that stuns nearby enemies and creates a large blast of light. Using the stun will consume the orb and light the area for 7 seconds. A light orb lasts for 45 seconds after being picked up for the first time, and when it's close to expiring a clock timer will appear on it indicating the remaining seconds.

Light Thieves will periodically spawn near players and they will try to steal them. When they get to an orb they will channel the pick up animation, indicated with a clock timer above them. If they successfully manage to grab it, they are Soul  Empowered and will run around with it until the light expires. If killed they will drop the orb on the floor.

The minotaurs, when spawned, wander around the maze until they encounter players. The minotaur attacks the players and spawns AoEs that prevent all healing for several seconds. It will also steal light orbs, preventing players from hitting the Eye and making itself stronger, gaining Soul  Empowered. Killing it makes it respawn somewhere within the same maze, or it can be kited away until it doesn't aggro the light orbs or the players.

General strategy
There are 2 main strategies to tackle this encounter.

Split strat
The squad is split with 4 players on the north side, 4 on south and 2 on top of the ledge.

The 2 players in the middle throw orbs at the north and south groups. Usually each player is dedicated to throwing to one side only, aiming  Throw  Throw Light so they drop it on the ground next to the Eye. They can kite and outsustain the light thieves, or cleave them down. Mobility skills are recommended.

The 4 players on each side should wait until they have 3 light orbs ready. It's recommended that each side marks their respective Eye using squad markers, as the markers do not disappear when the Eye becomes untargettable or teleports. The healers are generally the designated players to keep the Eye permanently stunned, preferably using traits and sigils that increase the duration of the control effects. They should keep an eye on the remaining stun time, and use Flare right before it runs out. The DPS players can burst the Eyes down, making sure they don't overwrite the stun and to time the kill so it happens at almost the same time as on the other Eye.

Portal strat
This strategy requires high DPS and can easily fail if DPS players accidentally overwrite the stun.

At the start, there are 3 players on the ledge while the rest wait on one Eye (conventionally the north one), one of which has to be a mesmer with  Portal  Portal Entre and   Mimic. After the encounter starts the mesmer places the entrance of the portal on top of the ledge, towards the south Eye. If the entrance is placed too early, it will disappear and go on cooldown. Then, the mesmer and another player throw a light orb to the north side and glide towards the rest of the squad. The remaining player should stay up there, throwing the first orb to the north side and then to the south Eye.

The squad can DPS down the north Eye, and when it's about to die or fully dies the mesmer mimics the portal. The group takes the port up the ledge and glide towards the south Eye. The mesmer before gliding down with the rest of the squad should place another entrance up the rock ledge, towards the north side. The player in charge of throwing orbs should throw one to the north side wherever the Eye teleports to.

The squad kills the south Eye, take the second portal up the ledge, and go to the north Eye to finish it off.

Tips
Avoid using  Daze,  Fear, or  Knockdown, as these will override the stun from the light orb and likely cause the Eye to teleport.
Note that other CC can be used freely including  Stun and  Launch.
The duration of the light orb's stun can be extended with traits such as Moment of  Moment of Clarity,  Stormsoul or Kinetic  Kinetic Stabilizers and/or weapons with  Superior Sigil of  Superior Sigil of Paralyzation.
Statue of Death
Overview
The Eater of Souls will target the player with the most  Toughness and will heal itself after being "killed" unless all six torches above the Sand Portal are burning.

There are four rectangle-like shapes on the ground ("dominoes"). Each domino has five circles within. After 15 seconds into the fight a Twisted Spirit will spawn. Killing this spirit releases five golden orbs of light on the platform and queue the next Twisted Spirit to spawn 10 seconds later. Players can collect the light orbs to grant Reclaimed  Reclaimed Energy for 10 seconds and the special action of the same name to throw them at the highlighted domino to charge it, which lights up the circles. While a player stands on a charged domino, they receive Empowered (Statue of Death).png Empowered. Once all 5 circles are lit up, killing the Mouth on the fully charged domino will release 10 red orbs into the air and heal the Mouth.

Green circles will spawn on a Lost Spirit (marked with the icon Red ) 40 seconds after the start of the fight and then every approximately 50 seconds. One or more players must temporarily sacrifice their body by going into the green circles to collect red orbs from the sky. If no one takes a green (downed people cannot take it), it will release a shockwave that can be jumped over. Each player must collect five red orbs to get down safely within the 30 seconds time limit (tracked by Mortal  Mortal Coil), otherwise the player will fully die. Moving too far from the arena or going into the boss hitbox will down the player on the platform. Upon taking a green the player has the effect Fractured  Fractured Spirit for 90 seconds, which prevents them from taking two consecutive greens.

Movement when collecting the red orbs is a bit unconventional, and may require additional practice. All skills are disabled and the slots 1-3 are replaced with the following:

The boss will have a CC bar shortly after a player takes a green circle, dealing damage to players on the platform and pulling in players in the air. This will last until the defiance bar is broken, a player is pulled from the air and downed, or after 11 seconds have passed.

Once a total of 20 red orbs have been picked up from the air, all the six torches will be lit up and the Eater of Souls will not be able to regenerate anymore. Getting his HP to 0 will defeat him.

General strategy
At the start the squad can damage the boss until the first Twisted Spirit spawns, but without killing the Mouth. The majority of players should go kill the Twisted Spirit while the tank keeps the boss in safe distance from the crowd. A healer may be left to support the tank if necessary. The boss's most threatening attack is Hungering Miasma ("Puke"), for which he will face into the direction of the closest player (except the tank) and create a large cone of poison in front of him. It is recommended to make the boss stand between the highlighted domino and the squad, so this attack doesn't cover where he needs to be killed.

Once the spider dies, players collect the light orbs and throw them at the highlighted domino. If someone misses the domino the next Twisted Spirit must be killed and the missing circle(s) must be charged with the new light orbs. When all five circles of the domino are charged, the Mouth can be killed on top of it.

If orbs are not in the air and won't be released soon, a green circle can be skipped. Otherwise, the designated players should keep an eye on where the Lost Spirit spawns to take the green in time.

This has to be repeated until all six torches are burning. Then, the Mouth can be killed anywhere on the arena.

Assuming no orbs or timings are missed, there are two common strategies for doing greens:

0-5: This is the most common strategy among the playerbase. The first green is skipped, making sure to jump over the shockwave. Then, 5 people are sent to take the second green, one of which is called "sacrifice" (or "sac"). This player should go into the boss hitbox as soon as his defiance bar is up to interrupt him, and without taking any red orbs along the way.
2-2: Two players take the first green and collect 5 orbs each, and two other different players take the second green and collect 5 orbs each. The boss breakbar must be broken twice, once after each green, to allow the players in the air to move freely and collect the orbs in time.
Tips
Keep an eye on his defiance bar to break it as fast as possible.
The group should largely stay close together, except when they must split to gather orbs of light or take greens.
Collecting a 2nd light orb when you are holding one will destroy the 2nd orb.
Statue of Ice
This mini boss is an ice elemental called "Broken King".

Health: 9,831,000
Enrage Timer: 3 minutes 30 seconds
Enrage Effect: Kills all players
The Broken King targets the player with the highest  Toughness, he can rotate but not move. He will constantly fire a cone of ice shards towards the tank, which can be avoided by standing beyond its range, blocking, evading or with invulnerability. He will also occasionally create dark blue cracks on the ground, which deal constant heavy damage to anyone standing on them. These cracks can be jumped over, dodged or blocked, and will despawn after almost 30 seconds.

Every 2% of the Broken King's health, the boss spawns a green circle that has a floating ice shard that slowly descends. A squad member must be standing in the green circle when the ice touches the ground or the entire squad will take a massive amount of damage. Successfully absorbing a shard will give the player a timed stack of Frozen  Frozen Wind that lasts for 45 seconds. If the player reaches 3 stacks and takes yet another green, they will be frozen for 10 seconds ( Glaciate), unable to move nor attack and continuously take damage until it leads to instant defeat. It is however survivable if the player receives constant healing, and they will lose all stacks of Frozen  Frozen Wind. If the squad's damage per second is too high, too many green circles may spawn all at once and all players may reach 3 stacks and be unable to take any more circles, leading to a wipe.

When the boss health reaches 1% the timer stops and he won't take any damage nor spawn greens until all the green circles in the arena have been picked up. After that, the Broken King can be defeated.

General strategy
This boss has very little health and can be quite forgiving towards low damage team comps, but he does have an enrage timer, after which he will wipe the group. Having a few mid-to-long ranged DPS players as well as a couple melee DPS players can help everyone reach green circles without losing too much damage.

Conventionally, the tank will make the boss face north and generally stand far enough so his autoattacks don't reach him. Whenever someone plans on taking a green, they will go stand in it well in advance so the squadmates know it is being taken care of. If multiple greens overlap on top of each other, the player should stand on the overlap of as many greens as they are able to take, so others can know if they need help. If a player realizes they are about to take a green when they already have 3 stacks, spam pinging the effect or any ability on squadchat can alert the healers they will need healing.

Tips
If a crack covers a green circle, there is usually a small safe spot on the edge to stand on.
It is everyone's responsibility to grab green circles. There are usually far too many to just be split among 3-4 people.


The Voice in the Void or Dhuum
As the final encounter, you have to defeat and imprison Dhuum. The goal is to defend the seven Reapers until they can complete their ritual to subdue Dhuum.

Health: 32,000,000 (40,000,000 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 100%-10%: 10 minutes
10-0%: 1:45 minutes
Enrage Effect: 100%-10%: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged - Deals 500% damage.
10-0%: Kills all players.
Overview
Throughout the fight, Enforcers spawn in the four corners of the room after a big red orb emanating from Dhuum's throne travels to that corner, slowly moving towards the reapers and attacking them for heavy damage. Their attack cleaves in a small cone in front of them and can easily down players if they are hit as well. The Enforcers are susceptible to any soft CC including blind but are immune to all hard CC. Collecting big red orbs while in the air prevents one Enforcer from spawning. The next enforcer will still spawn at the next point in clockwise order so no spawn point will be skipped.
Similar to the Enforcers, Messengers with the appearance of flesh golems will spawn throughout the encounter. Below them is a small orange Aoe pulsing heavy damage to anyone touching it. They are also spawned by orbs coming from the throne and traveling to four designated spots in the room. Collecting medium sized orbs in the air prevents a Messenger from spawning but the rule for the Enforcers is applied here as well, no spawn point will be skipped. Their spawn time is a bit randomized due to different travel distance an speed (in the air above the players AND on the ground floor). Initially they spawn approximately every 10 seconds. As soon as Dhuum leaves his throne, new Messenger orbs are only spawned roughly every minute, leaving the throne at ~X:35 and spawning between 5 and 15 seconds later, usually at X:25 ± 5 seconds. The Messengers aggro on one of the reapers unless attacked by a player which makes them switch to the player instead. They die automatically 15 seconds after being attacked for the first time. Any Messenger alive at the 10% phase transition will be removed.
Spawns are clockwise for both enemy types and the spawns points can be seen in the graphic.
Reapers are also occasionally attacked by small spiders, Deathlings. Deathlings can eventually overwhelm and kill a Reaper given enough time, but they have relatively low health so they can be easily killed. Reapers can also easily be healed due to having a massive incoming healing modifier (x100).
Mechanics
Once the timer reaches 9 minutes, one player will be given a bomb-like mechanic (Arcing  Arcing Affliction), gain the special action key  Core  Expel Energy and a red filling circle (timer) above their head. Once the circle is full (13seconds) or they press the special action key, the bomb will detonate, harming players depending on their distance from the player. When you are affected by the affliction, you also gain the Residual  Residual Affliction effect, so you cannot be affected by it again for 40 seconds. When the bomb detonates, one non-debuffed player will be afflicted 3 seconds later - this is the player with the lowest HP at this time (which frequently ends up being the player closest to detonation). The bomb mechanic is paused when Dhuum steps down from his throne, and during the Greater Death Mark mechanic, but will continue again every 90 seconds (7:30, 6:00, 4:30, 3:00, 1:30). There can be a maximum of 4 bombs during the prephase, and 5 during each of the burn phases. Any afflictions will be removed by the Greater Death Mark mechanic.
Every 30 seconds, Dhuum reaches for one of the Reapers and will cause the ritual to fail unless a player stands close to the reaper and sacrificing himself instead (referred to as the "green" mechanic). The player will be lifted up and has to collect five red orbs in order to get back down ("reunite their body and soul"). Failing to do so within the 15 second time limit results in death of that player. A big enforcer orb spawns clockwise relative to the sacrifice location. Collecting it will prevent the enforcer from spawning during main Dhuum fight. Nowadays in most group, all green go-ers are expected to collect the big enforcer orb to smoothen the fight. All other small orbs are random. During this mechanic, if the lifted player gets too close to the light pillar in the center of the room they instantly die. After their return, players cannot be harmed for a few seconds (no indicator on that though) and have a debuff for 80 seconds so you need at least 3 persons alternating this role. A similar orb collection phase happens during the 10% phase, but players have 30 seconds to collect orbs instead.
Every 30 seconds, starting at 60% HP, Shackle mechanic will occur. Two players (the closest and the second closest to Dhuum, and never the tank) will be selected to receive Soul Shackle (effect).png Soul Shackle. Only the two shackled players will see a red text message – "Your Soul has been shackled to another!", hear a sound effect, and will have a bright chain animation between the players as well as Reaper's or Dhuum's short dialogue. When this happens, both players need to run away from each other to break the chain (~1200 range). Otherwise, after 4 seconds, the chain will start to tick continuously damage and down both players. This mechanic has a subtle sound effect and doesn't tell you who you are shackled to, so you will need to pay extra attention and call out when you get the shackle. If a shackled player downs or dies, the other player will still take damage until they move far enough away and break the shackle. Any shackles will be broken and removed by the Greater Death Mark mechanic.
Boss Attacks
Starting at 90% Boss HP, Dhuum turns around and slams his scythe towards the middle of the room occasionally (this attack seems to have a 30 second cooldown), creating an orange expanding AoE circle (that actually does not hurt) and having cracks emerging from the point of impact. These cracks explode after a few seconds, dealing heavy damage to players standing on top of them and applying fears to affected players if they survive the damage. The density of the cracks increases at 50% and 25% HP.
Death Mark - Roughly every 80 seconds, starting at ~7:05 left on the timer, Dhuum disappears into the ground, targets one player and reappears underneath their feet at their current location with a circle AoE attack, centered around where he slams his scythe. If everyone is stacked, they can all run out immediately when Dhuum appears and avoid the Soul Splitting easily by double dodging. Players still within the AoE circle when it finishes expanding will have their boons ripped, their soul split from their body, applying Hastened  Hastened Demise, and be knocked back ~1000 range. If this happens, players will need to locate their souls within a few seconds (indicated by a large beam of light where their body was when they were hit) or else they will instantly be killed. This attack leaves behind a large green AoE field. The field is harmless for the first few seconds that it appears, with a fire spreading around the ring. After the fire completes the ring, the circle deals extremely heavy damage to any player that steps inside of it. The green AoE will remain for two minutes.
Greater Death Mark - Every 80 seconds, starting at 6:25 Dhuum will disappear into the ground and teleport to the middle of the room. Dhuum will unleash an AoE attack that will soul-split everyone, applying Hastened  Hastened Demise, and knocking them back relative to the direction their character was facing. If you put your back close to the wall, you will only be knocked back a certain distance and can easily get back to the the beam of light. As a result, it is recommended to face Dhuum with your back against the wall when the attack is about to happen. The attack deals 20% of the player's max HP and applies 6 stacks of Torment to everyone, which will deal heavy damage over time unless cleansed. A few seconds after this Soul-Split attack, Dhuum will start sucking people towards an orange AoE circle below him that pulses heavy damage. As long you are close to the wall and not near the center you should have enough distance to not get sucked in. Very rarely the Greater Death Mark can be delayed a bit due to Dhuum finishing up an animation. Protection helps mitigates the damage of the soul split since the boons are stripped after the damage happens, but condi cleanse is still needed to prevent people from dying afterwards. This attack will also steal all the boons from everyone so boonstrip is needed to remove boons (particularly retaliation) from Dhuum.
General Strategy
At 8:00 remaining time, Dhuum will stand up from his throne and walk towards the player with the highest toughness, starting to attack him with his scythe. With each swing of his scythe, he cleaves the area in front of him and creates a wide array of necro marks around him, which each explode and do damage. Dhuum does greatly decreased damage to the tank, but his scythe swing auto-attacks can easily down players.

Every 80 seconds starting roughly at 7:05, Dhuum dives into the ground, emerging at a random target and placing the Death Mark AoE on the ground that lasts 2 minutes. Being caught in the AoE seperates you from your soul similar to the Greater Death Mark attack. Dhuum will steal all boons if he hits someone with the dive attack. Starting after the green fire on its edges complete a ring around it, the AoE circle that remains deals extremely heavy damage to any players standing in it.

Every 80 seconds starting at 6:25 remaining time Dhuum performs an attack called Greater Death Mark. He sinks into the ground, subsequently emerging in the middle of the room and stripping all the players of their souls. This attack steals all boons, deals damage, applies 6 stacks of Torment, and knocks players backwards. Failing to reunite with your soul within the time limit results in death, displayed by the time left on Hastened  Hastened Demise. After a short delay, Dhuum will pull all players towards the middle. During the pull he hovers above an orange AoE circle that pulses heavy damage to anyone touching it.

Starting at 60% HP, Dhuum gains the ability to use Soul Shackle, which links two players together every 30 seconds. Both players take heavy damage starting after 4 seconds until the bond is broken by moving far enough apart.

Starting at 30% HP, Dhuum will start using Slash, a cone shaped attack that slowly pulls in everyone caught, stripping their boons and dealing damage. The cone of this attack represents the area in which damage is applied, while the claws pull players in from a 1200 unit range.

At 10% HP, the fight timer will reset to 1m 45s. Dhuum will go invulnerable, ripping all player's souls and lifting them towards the ceiling of the room. While in this phase, all players will have to collect 5 orbs each, failing to do so in 30 seconds will result in that player's death. After collecting the orbs each player returns to their character's body, and will be placed in the center of room, inside a protective bubble created by Desmina, with an invulnerable Dhuum floating at the center. In order to make Dhuum vulnerable again, players have to coordinate themselves to spread out to the previous Reaper locations (called Seals) and interact with each of the seals. While outside the protective bubble players take heavy damage each second like during the River of Souls encounter. This damage can be blocked or mitigated by protection. In order to have a successful interaction with the seals, players have to wait for the interaction bar to fully charge. The interaction is sped up if the player is under the effect of Quickness. Upon the first interaction, players will have only 10 seconds to interact with all other seals, so it is advisable that seven players do this mechanic at the same time. After interacting with all seven seals, players have to quickly return to the protective bubble and will have 20 seconds to damage Dhuum until he goes invulnerable again. This process can be repeated until Dhuum dies or the timer runs out. If the timer expires before the boss is dead, all players will die instantly.

Some timings and positions are shown in the graphic.

Challenge Mote
While the Challenge Mote is active, a smaller version of Dhuum called the Ender's Echo will be an ever present threat. This Echo does not attack, but instead charges directly at players in a straight line. When it hits a wall it turns around, adjusts its path (determined by player positions as it turns) and resumes charging. Players caught inside its hitbox will be captured by the Echo, dragging them along and dealing rapid damage to them. These players can be rescued by breaking the Echo's defiance bar before they reach 0 health, at which point they will instantly be defeated instead of going into downed state. For every Greater Death Mark, Echo will teleport back to its original position (right side of Dhuum's throne), dropping any players that got picked up and resumes charging. Players must be aware where it is charging before collecting one's souls, sometimes avoiding Echo first before collecting soul.

Additionally, the bonus to incoming healing on the Reapers is removed, and Dhuum's health is increased by 25% to 40 million.



Mythwright Gambit is the sixth raid introduced into the game.

It was released alongside the Living World chapter A Star to Guide Us on September 18, 2018.

Conjured Amalgamate
The first of Qadim's challenges. You must dispose of a large construct made of loot/junk from the Mystic Forge.

Health: 52,290,000 (Same HP if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 8 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged - Increases damage dealt by 200%. Effect applied to all shields, swords, and warriors.
Overview
The fight starts when someone steps near the Amalgamate. The fight is played out on a crescent-shaped stage with boss in the middle. The fight swaps between arm phases, orb phases, shield phases, and head/damage phases.

The boss has two breakable arms, which it will use to attempt to smash the players. Every time it slams the ground, it will summon a group of Shields or a group of Swords. When killed these drop a corresponding Special Action Skill (Conjured Slash for the sword and Conjured Protection for the shield). This skill stacks in efficiency, so it's ok to pick up a sword or shield multiple times. Occasionally, if both hands are alive, the Amalgamate will raise his hands up to Clap. One shield stack minimum is required to survive. Killing an arm causes the boss to begin powering up a special attack. He will summon waves of orbs, Shield Bubbles (large orbs with an outer ring), Sword Bubbles (smaller greenish orbs with a vertical line), and Damage Bubbles (purple orbs). Have group members collect the sword and shield bubbles, as for each that reaches him, he gains shielding or damage buffs, respectively. He will then begin firing a treasure laser in a "wind-shield wiper" motion across the platform. The group should stack, use the shield right before the line hits them, and out-heal any remaining floor damage. Players can also use their Sword abilities on his shield, lowering the boss' defenses and stacking a 10% damage debuff (up to 10 stacks) enabling a good chunk of time for damage.

Health 100% - 25%: Amalgamate will attack with one arm at a time, depending on which half and section of the platform has the most players. Each arm can only target its closest quadrants.
Amalgamate will not use its arm(s) during the phases of the Junk Wall attack.
Amalgamate will first perform a Thunderclap attack after the 3rd time it has pulled its 1st arm back up (at around 7:11 left on the timer). 
Amalgamate phases if you reach 50% of its HP on the 1st burn and will stop its Junk Wall attack
Between the 1st and 2nd burn phases there will be no Thunderclap, as he is regenerating his 1st arm.

Health 25%: Amalgamate will immediately interrupt any of its on-going attacks. 
Arms will respawn with 50% health.

Health 25% - 0%: Amalgamate will be able to attack with both arms at the same time.
Amalgamate will continue to attack with its other arm during the the Junk Wall attack phases.
Arms will respawn with 50% health 1 minute after being destroyed (or, if both arms are destroyed, then both arms will respawn after the Junk Wall).

Boss Attacks
Pulverize
The Amalgamate will smash an arm on the platform. Any players not on the targeted quadrant will be affected by Tremor if not dodged.
The arm will smash the platform every 15 seconds (after 25%, each arm will have its own cooldown).
The arm will lay on the platform for 10 of those seconds.
The arm will conjure a number of Conjured Greatswords and Conjured Shields. (1 guaranteed, up to 5 more over time if being attacked)
Thunderclap
If both arms are present, the Amalgamate will bring them together in a fatal attack unless  Conjured  Conjured Protection is used to reduce damage taken. Each shield used reduces the incoming damage by 10%.
This will happen after 3 attacks with Pulverize when both hands are active, which is during both the start of the fight, and after both hands have respawned at 25%.
The first slam occurs at approximately 7:11 on the timer.
There is also an extra clap after the boss is brought to 25% health, but before the boss begins to use Pulverize again.
Downstate from this attack can be negated with AED or "Rebound!"
Junk Wall
This attack is triggered whenever an arm is destroyed. This attack has 3 parts, wherein the Amalgamate will:
Draw various orbs to itself for 20 seconds, which come in 3 types:
Purple - deals damage to players.
Green with a vertical white line (Sword) - grants a stack of Greatsword Power (effect).png Greatsword Power to the player or Golem-Powered  Augmented Power to the Amalgamate.
Green with a white enclosing circle (Shield) - grants a stack of Conjured Shield (effect).png Conjured Shield to the player or Golem-Powered  Shielded to the Amalgamate.
Fires Junk Absorption across the arena, which sweeps from one side of the platform to the other over the course of 15 seconds.
The wall starts from the side of the most-recently destroyed arm.
The attack will double back if both arms are destroyed.
Applies Ruptured Ground to areas it has passed over, dealing minor damage to players standing in it.
The wall will destroy any remaining Sword or Shield minions left on the platform.
Drop its head to the platform for 20 seconds after losing Golem-Powered  Shielded.
Junk Fall
If one of the hands is dead, instead of using Pulverize, the Amalgamate, after two Pulverize attacks, will scoop an arm across its quadrants and rain objects from above. This debris will land in orange AoEs of varying areas, and will remove stacks of Greatsword Power (effect).png Greatsword Power and Conjured Shield (effect).png Conjured Shield from any player it hits.
Minions
Conjured Greatsword
Apply Branded  Fractured on hit.
When defeated, will create a green AoE circle the grants a stack of Greatsword Power (effect).png Greatsword Power to the first player to walk into it, giving them the special action key  Conjured  Conjured Slash. The player will also have a sword overhead icon Greatsword Power (overhead icon).png.
Conjured Shield
The Shields will have defiance bars which must be broken before they can be damaged.
Apply  Chilled and  Slow in an AoE around them, which can impede players assigned to collect orbs if any are left alive during that phase.
When defeated, will create a green AoE circle that grants a stack of Conjured Shield (effect).png Conjured Shield to the first player to walk into it, giving them the special action key  Conjured  Conjured Protection. The player will also have a shield overhead icon Conjured Shield (overhead icon).png.
Conjured Warrior
If the Shields are left alive to fully channel, they can merge with the Greatwords, summoning a Warrior. Warriors deal a large amount of damage and should be killed quickly.
General Strategy
The boss follows the following pattern for phases: Kill One Arm>Orb Phase>Shield/Sword Phase>Kill Other Arm>Orb Phase>Shield/Sword Phase>Kill another arm>Orb phase (while other arm is active)>Shield/Sword Phase (while other arm is active)>Kill remaining arm and repeat orb phase, or kill the boss.

Bring high Area of Effect (AoE) classes that can hit multiple targets. You will also need to bring characters with consistent Crowd Control (CC) abilities to deplete the defiance bars from the Shields. Begin the fight in one of the central quadrants. Use swords as you get them on the arms. They will expire otherwise, and they do a good amount of damage and stack a 10% damage debuff on the arm. Use shields when he goes to "Clap". When an arm is about to be slain, send 1-2 people to each of the farther quadrants where the orbs will reach first. (Sword orbs will start towards the west, swipe east, then back. Shield orbs will start east, swipe west, then back.) The remaining members should clean up any remaining swords and shields, help collect any other orbs, and begin damaging the boss. Once the orb phase ends, throw the swords at the boss, lowering his shielding, and continue damaging him. Wait until the laser "wind-shield wiper" attack almost gets to your group and Shield. He cannot clap during the next phase. Repeat for the next arm up until after the orb phase. The Amalgamate's laser will come from the side of the hand you just killed, travel across the platform fully, then loop back. If all players stack on the far side of the first laser pass, a well timed shield will cover both the end of the first laser and the beginning of the second. Keep in mind that the laser's pass will make the floor do damage to players standing on it, healing or barrier is recommended. After the burn phase the boss will re-summon both of his hands. One person will need to save a shield for afterwards, as he will be able to clap again. This time both hands will be actively slamming on the platform. Focus one arm while killing all the shields and swords that spawn. When one arm dies the orb phase will start but the other arm will continue to attack. Bring down the boss' shield and you should be able to kill it.

Tips
Power damage is favored on this fight, since the construct removes all conditions every slam.
You can damage the Amalgamate during the laser phase and during the orb phase. There's no need to wait for him to lay his head onto the platform, or for the laser to stop firing.
You can damage the Amalgamate from almost anywhere on the platform. You do not have to be in the center to hit him. His hitbox extends past his visual model by a large margin. Melee can hit him just by swinging away. Take care with leaps, however.
Only one healer is necessary, though barrier is also useful. Party resurrection skills like  Spirit of  Spirit of Nature or  Well of  Well of Blood could also see some use if a shield mechanic is missed.
Destroying an arm deals 10% damage to the Amalgamate.
Always kill Conjured Shields and Conjured Greatswords as soon as possible, as they can form Conjured Warriors, which can deal significant damage if multiple are allowed to spawn.
When the Amalagamate starts using both his hands at once, having the group stack to a far east or western quadrant will allow the group a slight reprieve from the other hands.The other hand will come down in the opposing far quadrant, spawning adds farther away, where they won't damage the group. You will have to deal with the spawns eventually, but some groups may find only having to focus on one target at a time worth the risk.
If the  Conjured  Conjured Slash ability is used so that it overlaps with both the arm and a shield or sword, it will deal significant damage to both. (~80% of the sword/shield's health bars) This can help when your team has low cleave.
Challenge Mote
There are a few changes and one additional mechanics in the fight:

Arms are only vulnerable for 8 seconds after each slam instead of 10 seconds.
When the arms slam each times, 3 adds of Swords or Shields will immediately spawn, so there will be more adds.
4 Staves of Light will appear outside the arena after the first burn phase ended and will reappear between 28 ~ 30 seconds interval after they disappears. One random player will be marked by a pillar of light, gain the Target!.png Locked On effect, (or if you are being marked, your screen will light up) and all staves will fire lasers of light towards that player, focusing the player down. The player focused by lasers will be defeated instantly when the HP reaches 0. The lasers cannot be evaded, reflected nor mitigated by invulnerable state but can be blocked or body blocked by other players. They can also be body blocked by Sword or Shield adds, damaging them instead. Using  Conjured  Conjured Protection does not mitigate the laser damage.


Sorting & Appraisal
Qadim's second challenge. Dispose of the Dreg Shark eating treasure in the Sorting and Appraisal area.

Overview
Follow Zommoros through the sand portals, with Chief Sorter Skitch and Bezzalak showing the way, to the weekly first encounter, and then to Qadim's Dreg Shark.

The first part of this encounter changes on a week by week basis. Either of these two events may be active as the first part of this encounter:

Clear out the ectoplasm.
A fight with the Ectoplasmic Conglomeration and its subsidiary ectoplasms.
Shrink and sort the megapets.
A fight with any two of various megapets:
Mega Chainsaw the Skeleton
Mega Maraca Choya Pinata
Mega Foostivoo the Merry
Mega Princess Doll
General Strategy
The Ectoplasmic Conglomeration splits into smaller ectoplasms. Kill the ones that bounce and avoid the ones that are shields. You must use Crowd Control skills to break the defiance bar of the "active" ectoplasms. Damaging them while the bar is blue causes intense retaliation to you and everyone else around you.

The megapets must be moved under the appropriate extractor at 75% and 50% of their health to remove their barrier. At 25% health they need to be shrunk by moving them through the beam at the center of the room.

The Dreg Shark is invulnerable and hidden until a Dreg Shark Extractor is used on the pile of loot the Dreg Shark is currently in. When in a pile, it will periodically jump to another pile, showering damaging treasures in a AoE line underneath its jump. The Dreg Shark will go back to the pile 10 seconds after its defiance bar is broken if it is not killed yet.

Tips
Bring low cooldown Crowd Control skills for the Ectoplasmic Conglomeration.
While standing in the center of the gold piles while fighting the Shark is good for seeing which pile it's going into next, it also makes your group a very easy target for the treasures to hit.
Avoid standing in the line of the Dreg Shark's jump, as the AoE is quite damaging.


Twin Largos: Nikare and Kenut
Section-stub. This key section of the article is incomplete. You can help the Guild Wars 2 Wiki by expanding it.
Reason: Mention the portal strategy, no-split
The third, final challenge from Qadim. Win a fight against Nikare and Kenut, the largos assassins from Qadim's menagerie.

Health (Nikare): 17,548,336 (19,219,604 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Health (Kenut): 15,877,066 (17,548,336 if the Challenge Mote is Active)
Enrage Timer: 2 minutes per platform or after one has been killed
Enrage Effect: Kills all players (if platform gets submerged) or Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged — Increases outgoing damage
Overview
The fight starts when players land on the first fountain platform. Players will need to bring Nikare to 50% HP while surviving his attacks, and then move to the next fountain platform, and do the same with Kenut. After both Largos are at 50% HP, the squad must split into two groups and down each assassin to 25% hp and then defeat them on the next set of platforms.

Boss Mechanics
Both Largos attack and trigger many high-damaging mechanics very quickly in rapid succession. A short timer means DPS must be good, and players need to avoid as many mechanics as possible.

Nikare has three main attacks to avoid:

1. His dash attack. He will dash about 450 units 3 times very quickly, every ~22 seconds. The trajectory of the first 2 attacks are towards whomever is currently furthest from Nikare at the start of each dash. The 3rd is aimed at the player with the highest toughness.
2. His small AoE float attack. Every ~13 seconds, he will place a small AoE on each player similar to Gorseval the Multifarious's egg attack. If you are hit after the initial 2 second tell, you are floated for 5 seconds and take pulsing damage in the float.
3. His large AoE attack. The two large AoEs he places are often overlapped and being hit by one causes a large amount of damage and causes a large  Knockback.
All of Nikare's main attacks cause  Chilled and  Slow.

Nikare has one platform mechanic:

Every 14 seconds, a randomly assigned player, who is not the tank, will receive an AoE indicator Tidal Pool (overhead icon).png targeting them called Tidal Pool. When the indicator times out after 5 seconds, an expanding AoE is dropped on the ground; this is similar to Slothasor's volatile poison mechanic. Players will also have reduced attack and movement speed while they are targeted. Targeted players must move to the edge of the platform to place the AoE. Alternatively, players can attempt to drop the Tidal Pool in another Tidal Pool. Falling or jumping off the platform causes the pool to be placed on the very edge of the platform. On the third platform, this effect appears every 13 seconds. On the fourth platform, this effect seems to have random intervals. In the squad UI, the targeted player has a purple border for the duration of the effect. Touching the water causes the player to gain stacks of Waterlogged. This effect stacks slowly. If the player reaches 10 stacks, they are defeated instantly. Stacks disappear over time.
Bug Bug:
In rare cases, tank may get Tidal Pool when fighting Nikare at Third or Final Platform.
Kenut has three main attacks to avoid:

1. Her stealth/boon steal attack. She will stealth and after 2 seconds attempt to steal the boons of the player who is the farthest away from the boss with an AoE attack in front of her. Nowadays in most groups, there will be one person, usually a healer assigned to stand away from group to kite her boon steal attack to smoothen the fight because if Quickness is stolen, Kenut will attack and use skills too quickly. In case of boons stolen, the Chronomancers can boonstrip her using autoattack with their clones or groups can run a boonstripper such as a Renegade, Scourge, or Mesmer running Phantasmal Disenchanter. She performs this attack every ~25 seconds until 50%, then increases the frequency to every ~21 seconds.
2. Her wave attack. She will do a brief animation before she attempts to do the wave attack every ~22 seconds. This animation is similar to the knockdown attack that Dredge Resonators can do or the big wave attack High Priestess Amala can do in the Twilight Oasis Fractal. The warning orange circle is 1 second long, the shockwave is an expanding wave that lasts for 3 seconds. The shockwave can be dodged through, jumped over, or mitigated with invulnerability. It is not recommended to block it as it multi-hits. Kenut will gain  Protection for every player hit by the shockwave.
3. Her clock attack. She will place a 3-pronged formation of small to large AoEs every ~12 seconds. After this formation, she will do another attack with the AoEs everywhere the first attack didn't reach. Players hit by the AoE will take 5 stacks of  Torment. In order to visualize this, imagine a circle around her partitioned into 6 equally sized sections. The first attack is made with every odd numbered section and the second attack is made with every even numbered section. Kenut will gain  Might for every player hit by the AoEs.
Kenut has one platform mechanic:

Three waterspouts will bounce around on the platform. These waterspouts do a very large amount of damage. Their damage is on par with Nikare's platform mechanic. Therefore, Kenut's platform mechanic is extremely hazardous by comparison because the AoEs are unpredictable and can cause DPS loss if the tank has to move. Touching a waterspout applies  Chilled and causes the player to accumulate stacks of Waterlogged. Reaching 10 stacks of Waterlogged will kill the player.
Bug Bug:
Kenut may occasionally spawn no waterspouts after teleporting to her third or final platform.
General Strategy
The group is given 2 minutes to damage each boss from 100% hp to 50%. (First Nikare, then Kenut.) If they fail to do so, the platform sinks into the water and wipes the group. After Kenut reaches 50% HP, the encounter will phase and the groups will need to split into two, one group going right to face Kenut and one group going left to face Nikare. The groups are given 2 minutes, exclusively, per platform to damage each boss from 50% HP to 25% and then two minutes more from 25% to 0%. Occasionally the bosses will obtain a Defiance bar that needs to be broken. After one largos is defeated, the other will become enraged and deal double damage. This requires the groups on both sides to coordinate their kills.

Bug Bug:
Either one of the twins may occasionally bug out at 25%, is in invunerable state and not move to the next platform. This bug occurs when it coincides with cc bar. The platform they are on continues to sink during this time, so it becomes near impossible to kill them before the platform sinks entirely under the water
Tips
Mirages fare excellently on this fight, since they can "dodge" the assassins' many high-damage mechanics without actually moving or interrupting damaging skills.
Classes that apply Confusion and Torment will do well here, as the bosses attack and move frequently. In general, power-based classes are not recommended since many of them will find that their bursts are frequently interrupted by mechanics.
Be sure to bring full support for both subgroups, as after 50% they will not be near each other.
In the second half the fight, water spouts can launch you to the other side of the arena with the other Largos, which is useful if one group has significantly more DPS than the other.
Challenge Mote
With the Challenge Mote activated, the Twin Largos gain HP and perform an additional mechanic: every 20% of their health, they gain a massive amount of Barrier and cast a platform-wide wipe, similar to Gorseval's World Eater. The squad needs to jump off the platform and onto one of the surrounding fountains that return them back onto the platform. The Largos will drop the Barrier after casting the attack.


Qadim
Qadim shows his true self, and imprisons Zommoros. You must fetch Zommoros out of Qadim's menagerie & defeat Qadim to have any hope of leaving the Mystic Forge.

Health: 19,268,760 (21,195,636 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 13 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged - Qadim becomes enraged, gaining stacks of fiery empowerment over time.
Overview
To defeat Qadim, at least one squad member must let themselves be imprisoned in Qadim's menagerie, so they can find powerful creatures and bring them back to fight Qadim's minions when the menagerie group is freed. Furthermore, one or two players should be on Qadim's platform killing Lava Elementals while others fight a legendary creature.

General Strategy
Have one or more squad members be captured and sent to the menagerie. Those members receive Lamp  Lamp Bond while captured. While they are there they need to fight their way to the opposite corner to find a powerful creature to bring back (see image below). While this is happening, some people must stay behind and survive some of Qadim's powerful minions (first the Ancient Invoked Hydra, then the Apocalypse Bringer, and finally the Wyvern Patriarch and Wyvern Matriarch at the same time). When the captured group reaches the allied creature, have the people who stayed behind destroy Qadim's lamp, this will free the people who were captured. The freed players will appear floating where the lamp was and will need to fly to the rest of the group. They will return floating with the effect Break Out!.png Power of the Lamp for 5 seconds while also gaining the special action skill, Drop, which will instantly return them to the platform at their choosing. If those players do not use the skill they will be dropped when the effect wears off.

Phase 1 (100%-66%)
Qadim targets the closest player and launches fireball projectiles at them causing burning and damage. While he is on a platform, Lava Elementals spawn on each corner of the platform and slowly move towards him. If an elemental reaches Qadim, he gains a stack of Fiery  Fiery Surge, making him deal 20% more damage and attack 2% faster for 120 seconds per stack. If there are ever no players on the platform he is on, he will cover the platform with a lava field and immediately gain 5 stacks before moving to the next platform, and will continue to do this to each platform until there is a player on a platform he goes to. Therefore, one or two people should stand on Qadim's starting triangular platform to keep him off of the creature group and kill the Lava Elementals. These players are referred to as the "kiter(s)".

Qadim's attack chain consists of: 2 auto attacks, breathing fire + a knockback, 1 auto attack, spinning in place while fire runs along the lines of the platform, 2 autoattacks, breathing fire + a knockback, 1 auto attack, fire along the lines, 4 auto attacks, and then a meteor on the closest player. A player sitting in place towards a corner of the platform will not be hit by any of his autoattacks - they will pass by the left and right of the player. Furthermore, players can avoid the fire running along the lines by staying off the golden sections of the platform. So a kiter can potentially stay in place and only dodge the knockbacks + meteor if they so wish. After the meteor, Qadim will have an expanding AoE which will break the platform he is on, covering it with a lava field. During this time he tethers himself to the closest player, and will teleport to the platform that player is on after he breaks the platform. He then repeats the pattern with Lava Elementals spawning around the corners of that new platform.

While that is happening, a second group should be attacking the current Legendary creature. Every beast's aggro is based on distance. The designated tank should stand closest to the creature and face them away from the rest of the group. Each one does a two basic attack chain and alternates between a creature specific attack or a break bar attack. Players standing inside the creature's hitbox during the second creature specific attack will be teleported to Qadim. This can only be avoided by dodging at the correct time or moving outside of the hitbox. When the menagerie group successfully returns from the lamp, they bring with them a powerful creature able to deal 80% of the creature's health, briefly stun the creature and apply  Exposed for a short time. Be careful, however, while the creature is under 20% health it will be enraged, dealing a lot more damage.

The Ancient Invoked Hydra's basic attack applies four stacks of bleeding, two stacks of poison, and chill depending on which of it's three heads you get hit by. Its creature specific attack is a flame breath that does a lot of damage and is also a small blowout. Its defiance bar attack, if not broken quickly, will give 5 stacks of might, regeneration, protection and summon several meteors on top of every player's current position that deals a very large amount of damage. After the third basic attack chain, the hydra will teleport one platform in the current direction he is facing.

After the hydra dies, Qadim will move to the center of the arena. Three Greater Magma Elementals will spawn surrounded by four Lava Elementals, one group in each corner, and begin to walk towards Qadim. The Lava Elementals are invulnerable while within the Greater Magma Elemental's AoE. Either kill the magma elementals or displace them to make the lava elementals vulnerable. Three Pyre Guardians also spawn on platforms further out. Blue orbs will launch you to these platforms. Each guardian pulses a boon to Qadim, so it's important to strip the pyre quickly and kill them. The three boons are 25 stacks of stability, retaliation, and protection. Once the magma elementals, lava elementals, and pyre guardians are dead, you are free to DPS the boss. Occasionally he will do a giant meteor attack similar to Amala's, every second one is then followed by a break bar. The break bar, if failed, will cause a massive explosion dealing substantial damage to nearby players.

Phase 2 (66%-33%)
Once Qadim reaches 66% he will return to his starting platform and summon the Apocalypse Bringer. The platform layout will change slightly from phase one, but all the roles are still the same. The Apocalypse Bringer starts immediately with a break bar and will summon several Reapers of Flesh. These destroyers do a lot of damage so it's important to cleave them quickly. Their break bars are rather small so get in as much damage as you can while they are broken. If the Apocalypse Bringer is not cc'd quickly, then reapers of flesh will spawn near Qadim. His basic attack is a right hand swipe that covers about a third of his side, easily avoided. His unique attack is a shockwave like Qadim's meteor, jump or dodge to avoid the wave and the circles around him. Once the menagerie group returns, finish him off and repeat the magma elemental phase.

Phase 3 (33%-0%)
At 33% Qadim will spawn the Wyvern Patriarch and Wyvern Matriarch. Repeat the same lava elemental killing near the boss and menagerie group. The platform layout will be very different during this phase. One person should tank the Matriarch facing away from the group while everyone else focuses the Patriarch. Similar to those in Verdant Brink, they attack in tandem doing two basic wing swings, a tail swipe, and a flame breath. Instead of moving, the Patriarch will get a break bar while it attempts to destroy the platform, at the same time the Matriarch will attempt to gust players off the platform. If the break bar fails it is very difficult to recover as your movement options will be severely hindered. When the menagerie team returns, Zommoros is freed and attacks the wyverns. Each hit deals 25% of their max health, and he goes back and forth three times for a total of 75% to each. Afterwards he goes to Qadim and stops the lava elementals from spawning, allowing the kiter to leave Qadim to join the group. At this point everyone can gather to finish off the wyverns and then go to Zommoros' protective shield. Zommoros' protective bubble heals and cleanses conditions from all allies, including ressing any players who may go down in it.

Zommoros will lead you through a short jumping puzzle of turning triangular platforms. Two Pyre Guardians will spawn that pulse retaliation and stability, simply boonstrip and kill them then go DPS Qadim. Zommoros will be on the opposite side of Qadim's platform with his protective bubble. Qadim will move corners every few attacks and do his break bar attack. At 15% he moves to his final platform. Jump to a blue orb and DPS Qadim. He will summon two more magma elementals with four lava elementals each. Displace or kill them to finish off this last set. Depending on how much DPS is being done, Qadim may do one final meteor attack.

Tips
This fight has sections of lengthy, near-solo tanking, sometimes by multiple members. The timer is generous, so bring a couple tanky classes and make sure you have high healing capacity.
The arena platforms will change as the fight progresses, be careful not to fall off. If you do, however, you are floated back up in a bubble. Repeated bubbles will cause increased damage and eventual death.
Bug Bug:
There is currently a bug (or obscure mechanic) that occurs during the kiting phase when Qadim is at 33% health. While Qadim is switching platforms to the third kiting platform (the one connected with blue orbs to the second platform) the kiter has to move to the opposite side or else, even if Djinn's Gaze fixation appears to be applied to him, Qadim will act as though there was noone on the platform, gaining stacks and rapidly changing platforms, which can quickly snowball into a wipe. This often happens when the kiter is a Deadeye, as they tend to kneel on the closest corner. To circumvent this issue, the kiter should go to the furthest corner on this third platform (it will be the corner closest to the wyverns).
Challenge Mote
Starting the fight with the Challenge Mote active results in the following changes:

There will be a large fireball that bounces on every platform in a clockwise pattern. Players hit by it will be instantly downed, or instantly defeated if they were already downed. It can be blocked, dodged, or avoided by stepping out of its AoE marker. It will not be present during DPS phases, the jumping puzzle section, nor inside the lamp.
Falling off the playable area will result in instant death.
During DPS phases, Qadim will gain a defiance bar after every shockwave, instead of every other shockwave. Because of this, it is recommended to destroy Stability pyre guardian.
All expanding AOE platforms will be destroyed instead of covering with lava field. This is especially so when Qadim moves to next platform and after destroying pyre guardians. Be sure not to get teleported by his minions and quickly get back to platform after destroying pyre guardians during jumping puzzle phase as you will fall to your death.
All Pyre Guardians have AOE on their hitbox which deal little damage and apply one stack of  Burning each tick.
Enemies within the lamp will have 10 stacks of Fiery Surge instead of 5.



The Key of Ahdashim[1] is the seventh raid wing introduced into the game.

It was released on June 11, 2019.

Gate
In order to gain access to Ahdashim, players must restore the Key of Ahdashim. They will have to escort Scholar Glenna and the damaged Key, while collecting fragments of the key to restore it and open the gate. To complete the event, players must capture different areas of the courtyard to make them safe for Glenna and the Key to traverse. Each area is guarded by small groups of miscellaneous Branded Veteran and Elite creatures. In addition to those, there are also several Champion Branded Djinn that roam the area between and near the capture points. They possess hard hitting skills and can pose a threat to the squad if not outhealed or killed fast enough. Each capture point needs to be captured by clearing out enemies while also having at least 1 player in the capture area.

After all 4 capture points have been secured, Glenna and the Key will begin to work on opening the door. At this points most squads split up into 2 unequal groups, one group will continue to kill 3 newly spawned Branded Djinn, while a healer and 1 damage dealer will stay behind near Glenna and the Key to protect them from oncoming waves of branded. Since the Djinn can deal heavy damage, they are most commonly dealt with one by one, starting with the first Djinn which can be found close to where the northwestern courtyard capture point was in the previous stage of the event; while the other two Djinn can be found in the northeastern and eastern part of the courtyard. Killing all three Djinn while also managing to keep Glenna alive will give the squad access to the Leystone Axis, and thereby to the first two bosses of the raid wing: Cardinal Sabir and Cardinal Adina. Alternatively, keeping Glenna alive for the entire 5 minutes without killing the Branded Djinn will also clear the event.

Players can now choose to either head towards the east to fight Adina or towards the west to fight Sabir.
Access to the Basalt Arena (Cardinal Adina)
Prior to reaching Adina's arena, you are tasked with defeating an earth elemental. The elemental uses Boulder Barrage and has 5 slightly damaged pillars nearby. Each destroyed pillar removes 10% of the elemental's health. However, it does not heal and will not reset even if it wipes the group. If the group does wipe or are all dead at the same time, the pillars will respawn if all were destroyed. The elemental will continue to attack even after all pillars are destroyed if there are players in range.

Access to Fractured Conservatory (Cardinal Sabir)
Prior to reaching Sabir's conservatory, the players are tasked with defeating several Paralyzing and Voltaic Wisps. Once defeated one player needs to interact with an air orb found on a small pedestal in front of the wind wall blocking access to the conservatory. Once the wind wall disappears, the squad is faced with another small group of Paralyzing and Voltaic Wisps. After this group has been defeated the players want to head towards Sabir who is standing at the top of a small staircase. When they get close enough, Sabir will begin to jump up several platforms stopping and waiting for the players on the biggest one. To reach Sabir now, the players now have to kill one Voltaic Wisp on each level of the platforms. Once a Voltaic Wisp is defeated it will create a small circular AoE field that allows players to launch themselves to the next level of the platforms. Once the players reach the platform Sabir is waiting on they can choose to start the fight by attacking them.


Cardinal Adina
Health: 22,611,300 (24,872,430 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 8 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged — Increases outgoing damage by 200%
Pillars
Pillars on the arena can be one of 3 stages: undamaged, slightly damaged, or heavily damaged after 1 Boulder Barrage. Diamond Palisade brings any undamaged pillars to be slightly damaged. A slightly damaged pillar is then destroyed after 2 hits of Boulder Barrage. For each damaged pillar on the arena, Adina receives a stack of the buff Captain's  Pillar Pandemonium. Each stack increases outgoing damage by 20% and reduces incoming damage by 20%.

At certain points in the fight, Adina launches the arena-wide attack Diamond Palisade, which damages all pillars as well as all players. An orange circle will expand from underneath Adina, and when the circle fills, Adina throws out Boulder Barrage projectiles targeting each player. They will damage and be stopped by any pillars in their way. Pillars require two Boulder Barrages to be completely destroyed. If a pillar is hit by only 1 Boulder Barrage, it will stay standing on the arena until another pillar is placed next to it, it get's hit by Adina's Perilous Pulse cone attack, it is destroyed with a second Boulder Barrage, or Adina phases.
Periodically throughout the fight, the five furthest players from Adina (except the designated tank) will be marked with Tectonic Upheaval and receive a message on their screen, as well as an expanding orange AoE circle beneath them. When the circle fills, their current location will be marked to spawn a new pillar on the closest hexagon tile after a few seconds. The pillar spawn will also generate a shockwave around the pillar, which applies  Crippled and  Immobile to any players hit by it. The shockwave from a pillar spawn will destroy any old damaged pillars caught in its way. Standing directly on top of a pillar spawn will instantly kill a player. Additionally, only one pillar can spawn per hexagonal tile of the arena. That is, if multiple pillar spawns are close enough to one another such that they would end up occupying the same hexagonal tile, only one pillar will be spawn on that tile.
Each stack of Captain's  Pillar Pandemonium increases outgoing damage by 20% and reduces incoming damage by 20%. Additionally, Boulder Barrage projectiles will instantly down a player. Hence, it is recommended to stand two players behind each of the pillars, so that they are distributed such that all pillars are destroyed by two Boulder Barrage projectiles. If multiple people are dead in the fight, e.g. two players are dead so there are only 8 remaining, it is recommended to “stack pillars” (i.e. spawn them close enough such that they occupy the same hexagonal tile) so that there are fewer pillars on the arena, and hence they can all be destroyed entirely by the projectiles to remove stacks of Pillar Pandemonium from Adina.
Other Core Mechanics
Persistently  Radiant Blindness: An uncleansable blind that causes all attacks to miss for it's duration. Radiant Blindness can be applied in the following ways: Falling into the sand, facing Adina when she casts Diamond Palisade, or being near Adina when a pillar shockwave touches her. The first apply a 10 second blind, while the latter two apply a 20 second blind.
Stalagmites: Mines that explode if you touch them. Adina spawns Stalagmites on the field when she is preparing her Diamond Palisade attack. Additionally, when Adina phases, she will explode all Stalagmites on the field. When they explode, they destroy the arena tile they are on, damaging,  weakening, and 5 Bleeding any players in a small radius of approximately one tile around them. Each hexagonal tile of the arena can only have one Stalagmites at a time.
Quantum Quake: A lethal sand wall which rotates 360 degrees counterclockwise around the map, similar to Sabetha’s flame wall. Quantum Quake has 2 rays on opposite sides in normal mode, and 3 rays in a tri pattern in challenge mode. Technically multihit
Terraform: Adina launches an arena-wide shockwave which damages players and reshapes the arena.
Toxic  Eroding Curse: Debuff applied periodically by the Hand of Erosion. Damage and condition damage taken are increased by 15%; stacks in intensity.
Raid Composition
The typical raid composition for Cardinal Adina will usually include a boon thief since Detonate Plasma can be stolen from her to provide all the necessary boons, except for 10-man alacrity. A second source of alacrity, often a renegade, is taken to provide this. The renegade is often responsible for providing Protective Solace to block projectiles when killing Hands in the split phases. That being said, a standard double chrono comp is also acceptable. Even though a druid is not necessary to provide might, one can be taken for additional healing and the spirit utility skills. Power dps classes, or condi dps classes with fast ramp-up times, are highly preferred for this fight due to the large number of short phases.

Overview
Upon arriving at the platform, players will see 5 pillars placed around Cardinal Adina. Attacking Adina directly, or simply approaching Adina closer than the pillars are placed, will start the fight.

Cardinal Adina will target the player with the highest toughness for her auto attacks. The rest of the players should always stand behind her to avoid getting hit by these attacks. During the fight Adina will continually cast Terraform and change the shape of the arena. The areas of the ground about to be destroyed will be colored yellow/orange right before the attack. Players should also try to avoid falling into the sand or risk dying to the damage.

Phase 1 (100%-75%)
The first phase of Cardinal Adina is a dps phase. Mechanics during this phase include Tectonic Upheaval, Stalagmites, Boulder Barrage, and Diamond Palisade. Adina stands in the middle of the arena and attacks the player with the highest toughness. Her attack chain consists of 3 auto attacks, followed by a charged knockback with spawning pillars, another 5 autos, then spawning mines and destroying pillars. All players other than the tank should stand behind Adina in order to avoid the Stalagmites especially since this explosion will often kill your tank.

The charged knockback (indicated by an orange cone attack) can be blocked or negated with stability. During the charged knockback, the 5 furthest players (not including the tank) from Adina will be targeted with Tectonic Upheaval. A notification appears across the screen and an orange AoE appears under the players who are targeted. A pillar will spawn on their location after a couple seconds (indicated by the orange AoE). These five players should move away from the group to place the pillars. Once the orange AoE changes to a decorative orange AoE that is stationary on the ground (no longer moves with the player) the player should immediately get clear of it. After a short period of time a stone pillar will appear and kill any player still within the AoE. Additionally, a shockwave will spread out from each of these five pillars that deals damage, and applies  Crippled and  Immobile. It is recommended to take the pillars far from the boss, as spawning them too close to Adina will apply Persistently  Radiant Blindness for 20 seconds to all players in a small radius around her.

After the knockback, she makes another 5 autos before beginning to spawn mines on the ground, as indicated by small orange expanding circles in a cone arrangement behind the tank. She also gains  Retaliation during this time, which can easily kill any players who continue to dps at this point. At this time, she will say a line of dialogue while an eye appears above her head, before damaging all players and pillars with Diamond Palisade. Players must face away from Adina or else they will have Radiant Blindness applied for 20 seconds. A large orange expanding circle under Adina will begin to fill the arena, and all players should get behind one of the five pillars (maximum two to a pillar) to avoid getting Persistently  Radiant Blindness as well as to avoid the next attack. When it fills, she will launch a Boulder Barrage projectile at each player. Any player not behind a pillar will be downed by this attack. A pillar will be destroyed if two projectiles hit it, hence requiring two players for each. Any pillar remaining after this attack (whether hit by one projectile or none) will give Adina Captain's  Pillar Pandemonium increasing her damage.

This sequence of attacks will continue in each of Adina's dps phases. Pillars can also be stacked on top of one another to generate a single pillar (if the decorative orange AoEs are overlapped). This should be avoided at all costs if all players are alive, but if two or more players are dead it becomes beneficial to stack these pillars to avoid having undamaged pillars that give Adina the dps increase from stacks of Captain's  Pillar Pandemonium.

Phase 2 (Hand Phase 1)
Once Cardinal Adina reaches 75% health, she will destroy all Stalagmites and pillars on the map and become invulnerable before beginning Quantum Quake, a lethal sand wall which rotates 360 degrees counterclockwise around the map, similar to Sabetha’s Flame Wall. Quantum Quake has 2 rays on opposite sides in normal mode, three with the Challenge Mote on. Stepping too close to these walls, or Adina herself, will cause a player to be killed instantly. These walls rotate counter-clockwise around the arena. Players should continually walk forward to avoid being caught by these. The arena also changes shape due to Terraform meaning players will likely have to jump to avoid holes in the ground (see images above). Once Adina stops channeling these walls players should avoid standing on the orange colored ground since those spots will disappear when she casts Terraform again.

After the arena is reformed, a Hand of Erosion and a Hand of Eruption spawn at the northwest and northeast corner of the arena respectively. The Hand of Erosion will apply stacking debuffs of Toxic  Eroding Curse, while the Hand of Eruption will periodically fling knockback projectiles at players. Since stacks of Toxic  Eroding Curse causing incoming damage to be increased, it is generally recommended to kill the Hand of Erosion first. Furthermore, care should be taken to not be knocked back by the Eruption projectiles into the sand. These projectiles can be blocked, absorbed, reflected, invuln’d, or mitigated with stability. Common mitigations include Protective Solace (ventari bubble), Feedback, "Stand Your Ground!", and Corrosive Poison Cloud.

During the Hands phase, Adina also throws auto attacks in the direction of each of the 4 hand spawn locations, starting at the northwest hand and going clockwise.

Phase 3 (75%-50%)
Once the hands have been destroyed, the arena will once again change shape and another dps phase begins. The arena shape is different from that of the first burn phase, but the same mechanics from (100-75%) are present.

Phase 4 (Hand Phase 2)
When Cardinal Adina's health reaches 50%, she will once again become invulnerable, destroy all mines and pillars, and spawn rock projectile walls that must be avoided. This phase is very similar to Hand Phase 1, above, except that two of each type of hand will spawn in the four corners of the arena. Different groups may choose to start killing these in different orders.

However, since Adina throws auto attacks in the direction of each of the 4 hand spawn locations, starting at the northwest hand and going clockwise, it is recommended to start on the southeast Erosion hand during the 50% and 25% split, and kill hands moving clockwise around the arena. This minimizes damage taken as well as stacks of Toxic  Eroding Curse.

Phase 5 (50%-25%)
After the four hands have been destroyed, another dps phase will begin. Again, the same mechanics present during this phase are the same as that in the rest of the dps phases.

Phase 6 (Hand Phase 3)
As in Hand Phase 2, four hands will spawn at the four corners of the arena and must be killed to move on to the final dps phase.

Phase 7 (25-0%)
The final dps phase has all the mechanics of the previous ones with an added difficulty. A Hand of Erosion will alternately spawn in the northwest and southeast corners of the field. Even if destroyed, they will respawn after a given period of time, so some groups will choose to instead heal through the damage in order to continue killing the boss. The additional stacks of Toxic  Eroding Curse will cause Adina's auto attacks and damaging aura to start dealing very heavy damage to the squad, so healing pressure will get increasingly high during this phase. Once Adina has been reduced to 0% health, the fight is won!

Challenge Mote
There's no new mechanic to deal with, however there are a few changes in the existing mechanics:
Dropping into the sand will be an instant defeat.
3 walls of rock projectiles will be spawned instead of two.
Pillars will now leave behind a hole after they are destroyed. This is where most players tend to forget the hole and accidentally dropping into it will lead to instant defeat. It is recommended to phase Cardinal Adina as soon as possible especially at phase 7 so as not to leave behind too many holes.


Cardinal Sabir
Health: 29,493,000 (32,442,300 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 9 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged — Increases outgoing damage by 200%
Overview
The fight consists of multiple platforms that you have to traverse. The main fight happens on three big platforms as can be seen in the image (above), phases are 100-80%, 80-60% and 60-0% per platform. In between there is always a transition over 5 smaller platforms where the squad has to ascend to the next big platform. Starting at 80%, small white tornadoes that can lift players high up into the air are added to the main platform. Their movement pattern can be seen in the image as well. In the third phase, starting at 60%, their movement direction is reversed. Starting at 50% boss HP, a big orange lethal Titanic Twister starts circling the platform as well.

Raid Composition
Any regular raid squad that keeps boon uptimes is fine on Sabir. Sabir does have a toughness tanking mechanic, but since the squad stacks completely together anyways it is considered unimportant. Two healers are recommended as this is a fairly high damage fight. A power warrior, or other dps with high CC, is often used to kill the Voltaic Wisps that spawn. Alternatively, their projectile attacks can be blocked, reflected, destroyed, or converted with a variety of skills.

Overall Strategy
For once in a raid standing in front of the boss is the correct option for the entire raid group. This is caused by Violent  Violent Currents applied through Cardinal Sabir's and the Voltaic Wisp's attacks which give players additional outgoing damage, along with incoming damage, for every stack. The special action skill gained at five stacks of this buff,  Flash  Flash Discharge, is required for breaking Sabir's defiance bar at different intervals during the fight. This skill is also a teleport which can be used to move around the arena. All players should stack in front of the boss at all times to gain this attack and out of the path of the tornadoes which will remove the Violent  Violent Currents stacks when touched.

Phase 1 (100-80%)
Cardinal Sabir's first few phases are fairly straightforward, stack in front of the boss to receive Violent  Violent Currents charges for the damage increase and dps him down.

At 90% Sabir will gain a defiance bar of size 15,000, a constant barrier preventing damage, and will push players back continuously with  Xera's  Electrical Repulsion. Players should always be running towards the boss to avoid falling off the platform. Additionally, Cardinal Sabir will have three orange rotating lines on the platform from Dynamic Deterrent that will knock players back if caught in them. While this defiance bar is affected by normal CC it requires a large amount and the special action key skill  Flash  Flash Discharge provides an easy 5 second stun. As long as players remain in front of the boss being hit by Sabir's attacks they will continually gain stacks and get this skill back. All players should use this skill off cooldown only while the defiance bar is active. Once the bar is broken every player gains an AoE beneath them from Bolt Break and must spread out or take a large amount of damage if within multiple AoE's.

After this attack finishes players can return to hitting Cardinal Sabir until he reaches 80% health and phases.

Phase 2 (Wisps 1)
Once Cardinal Sabir reaches 80% health he becomes invulnerable and knocks nearby players down with Walloping Wind (can be blocked or dodged like normal) before moving on to the next major platform. Small platforms with Voltaic Wisps appear and each wisp must be killed to activate the air current to jump up to the next platform. These wisps have defiance bars which can be broken in order to kill them faster but generally die pretty quickly even without doing so. Small red AoE's will appear on the platform from Electrospark and should be avoided to not take damage and get crippled. The wisps also have Electro-Repulsion similar to Cardinal Sabir's Electrical Repulsion that pushes players back continuously.

After killing several wisps and traveling along the platforms a longer platform with small tornadoes is reached. Stepping into a tornado will send the player high up into the air and is used to reach the final wisp platform. There is also a tornado with an orange AoE instead which will instantly kill any player that touches it. Successfully navigating these tornadoes and platforms will bring the players back to Cardinal Sabir and a platform nearly identical to the first one, just higher up.

Phase 3 (80-60%)
Cardinal Sabir will again be in the middle of the platform and players should stand in front of him to receive their violent current stacks. The small tornadoes seen in the previous wisp phase will be traveling around the platform in specific paths (see image above). Touching any of the tornadoes will remove all your stacks of Violent  Violent Currents and cause the tornado to use Shocking Barrage, sending out waves of electricity that apply  Weakness.

At 75% Cardinal Sabir will pulse two orange circles right before releasing Unbridled Tempest which sends out a lethal wall of wind. The wind wall starts in the middle underneath Sabir and travels quickly to the outer edge of the platform, downing anyone hit by it. To avoid the attack you'll want to get to a tornado to get up in the air. You can use your special action key to get to a tornado in order to have no violent current stacks to lose and you can teleport there instantly. If a player goes up too early they can also glide in the air to stay up long enough to avoid the attack. You are able to teleport through the wind wall or use invulnerability to avoid the damage as well.

At 70% Sabir will do the same  Xera's  Electrical Repulsion skill and the defiance bar must be broken. It gets slightly trickier during this phase as the tornadoes are still present and will remove your Violent  Violent Currents stacks if hit by them. Avoiding the tornadoes and breaking this defiance bar will allow players to resume doing dps.

At 65% Sabir will do another Unbridled Tempest, avoid the wind wall and continue dpsing to phase down to 60% of Sabir's health.

Phase 4 (Wisps 2)
This phase is exactly the same as the previous wisp phase with the addition of a second orange death tornado being present on the long platform. Ascend the floating platforms by killing the wisps to reach the final platform of the fight.

Phase 5 (60%-40%)
After 17 seconds on the main platform Sabir will do another Unbridled Tempest, and right after it will gain a new defiance bar of size 2500 with the Ion  Ion Shield effect. This defiance bar rapidly refills and must be burst down quickly. You'll want to wait till multiple players, usually 6+, have the  Flash  Flash Discharge skill active indicated by their icons being highlighted in yellow in the squad UI. Normal CC will work on this bar but since in refills so quickly you need to break it within a couple seconds which requires massive CC. Typically the commander or leader will call out when to do this coordinated CC attack. While this bar is not broken Sabir will continuously gain stacks of Ion  Ion Shield making him take less damage, deal more damage, and become immune to  Vulnerability. As with all of Sabir's defiance bars he will use Bolt Break right after so be ready to spread out.

At 50% the Titanic Twister spawns on the west side of the platform. This is indicated by a very large orange AoE with a tornado above it. It will rotate clockwise around the arena so players must continuously slowly move clockwise in order to avoid being caught in it as it kills any players that touch it instantly. Due to this any players that are downed due to damage should be immediately revived or they will be caught by the tornado and killed.

Below 50% Cardinal Sabir also does a new attack called Fury of the Storm. Players must get to one of the two safety bubbles that spawn in opposite corners of the arena to gain Mending Waters (effect).png Eye of the Storm and be safe from the attack. Being above the safe areas still gives you the effect so you can glide to them as well. One bubble will be slightly 'safer' than the other as it is farther from the Titanic Twister. Any players outside of the safe bubbles will be downed and must be revived. Sabir will continue using this attack throughout the rest of the fight. Players coming back or going to kill the Paralyzing Wisps later on in the fight can still be hit by this attack while gliding in the air. This is usually completely lethal as when you down while gliding you then fall to your death. The add platforms apart from the main arena are not hit with this attack.

Sabir will continue to alternate between using Unbridled Tempest with a Ion  Ion Shield defiance bar after and Fury of the Storm with 10 seconds between each (time starts after defiance bar is broken).

Phase 6 (40%-0%)
At 40% a new platform will rise up in the west and a Paralyzing Wisp will spawn on it roughly 5 seconds later. These platforms can be reached by using  Flash  Flash Discharge, taking a tornado on the platform and gliding across, or taking the updrafts off the corners of the platform. Each large wisp will have a defiance bar of size 600 that should be broken before attempting to kill them. The player's flash discharge special action key is great for this but any crowd control can also be used. These adds are usually killed to prevent them from attacking the group but the projectiles can also be blocked, etc. as described above. Wisps respawn 40 seconds after being killed. If not killed, they will summon a Voltaic Wisp next to them after they are alive for 32 seconds.

At 30% a new platform will appear north and another Paralyzing Wisp will spawn.

Below 30% the next Unbridled Tempest will have a  Xera's  Electrical Repulsion defiance bar instead of an Ion  Ion Shield defiance bar. This is the normal push back and beam one from the start so use CC as fast as you can but it doesn't have to be coordinated.

At 20% a new platform will spawn in the east with another Paralyzing Wisp.

At 10% the final platform will spawn in the south with the last Wisp, it's usually best to just focus on killing Sabir and ignore it.

Challenge Mote
With the Challenge Mote activated, five red pushing lines instead of three will be spawned at short time intervals during "chaotic CC", the "coordinated CC" bar is larger, players gain  Stasis Cage for 5 seconds when downed, and occasionally, a Paralyzing Wisp will spawn on the big platforms at three phases at certain time interval. Usually multiple Scourges with Epidemic skills would be able to deal with them easily.


Qadim the Peerless
Health: 47,188,800 (51,000,000 if the Challenge Mote is active)
Enrage Timer: 12 minutes
Enrage Effect: Vengeance (Mordrem).png Enraged — Increases outgoing damage by 200%
Main Mechanics
 Flux Disruptor-  Flux Disruptor: Activate aka Tether (Special Action Key): Players can primarily "tether" to a captured pylon or Qadim.
Tethering to a pylon ("good tether", marked by blue line) grants might, quickness, and alacrity every second through Kinetic  Kinetic Abundance. Every "good tether" applies a stack of  Erratic Energy to Qadim, increasing the damage that Qadim takes by 5%.
For each orb that is on a pylon, players can add another chain tether to the player currently tethered to the pylon, at a range of about 800. Each chain tether gives boons and applies an additional stack of  Erratic Energy, further increasing damage dealt to Qadim. This means after 3 orbs are on each pylon, there can be up to 12 tethers going on (realistically 10 due to the squad limit)
Assuming the main Pylon tether is as close to the boss as possible, the sub-tether should be able to get right up next to Qadim's hitbox without it breaking (assuming a straight line from the Pylon to Qadim).
Tethering to Qadim ("bad tether", marked by red line) applies the Guilt  Sapping Surge effect. This applies vulnerability to the player and reduces outgoing damage by 25%.
Once Qadim consumes a Pylon at 40% of his health the boss tether strengthens, allowing it to sub-tether to nearby players, which applies pulsing vulnerability and reduces outgoing damage by 25%.
When Qadim consumes additional pylons at 30% and 20% of his health, he creates more "main" tethers per pylon. Meaning by 20%, 3 players will permanently have the debuff, while also being able to debuff players around them.
Pylons: The three pylons must have their defiance bars broken at the start of each phase, and must have a tethered player ( Flux Disruptor-  Flux Disruptor: Activate) to remain claimed by the pylons. It is recommended that this player can sustain themselves (common choices include Rifle Deadeye with Invigorating Precision, and Condition Scourge with Parasitic Contagion), as the player will continue to take ticking aura damage over time. If no player is tethered in the range of the pylon for several seconds, the pylon will be recaptured by Qadim and must have its defiance bar re-broken.
If any of the pylons are not captured, Qadim gains a massive shield around him that renders him untargetable.
Every player tethered or subtethered to a pylon will get might, quickness, and alacrity due to Kinetic  Kinetic Abundance, and add another stack of  Erratic Energy to Qadim, increasing the damage that Qadim takes by 5% per stack.
For every orb on a pylon, players can chain tether to another player. Up to 3 orbs can be attached to a pylon.
For flanking purposes: pylons face Qadim when friendly. They change directions when they flip from ally to enemy, as indicated by an expanding AoE around them which knockbacks players inside of it. Enemy pylons will face in the direction of the player who was closest when they changed to being an enemy, and remain fixed in that direction until they become friendly again.
Pylons have a defiance bar of 1000.
Orbs (Shower of Chaos): Qadim will periodically (every 5%, but not at 80% or 60%) launch an orb at one of the three locations marked on the diagram where the Entropic Distortions also appear. Three will spawn per phase (100-80%, 80-60%, 60-40%), one at each location per phase.
The orb spawn is predetermined for a particular instance. The first orb spawn of the instance starts at the northeast location, and subsequent spawns rotate counterclockwise. If the run fails and the fight is restarted, the orb spawn continues rotating counterclockwise from previous runs in the instance.
Standing in the radius of the orb when it lands, or as it is traveling on the ground, will tether the orb to the player. Standing in the circle of a friendly pylon while tethered to that pylon will transfer the orb to the pylon.
If Qadim or a distortion is currently channeling to the pylon, the orb may not transfer to the pylon until they are no longer channeling.
If the orb hits the ground without being “caught” by a player, this deals damage to everyone in the arena. It slowly moves towards Qadim and applies increasing stacks of vulnerability to everyone as long as it still remains on the ground. If the orb connects with Qadim, Qadim launches Chaotic Surcharge which deals extremely heavy damage to everyone.
If the orb touches a distortion, the distortion will explode and deal heavy damage to everyone. If both a player and a distortion are in the orb location when it lands, it will connect to whoever was closer to the center of the orb drop location.
It is recommended that the three players on the three pylons catch the orb as it hits the ground. This is commonly done by playing a ranged class with mobility skills that can quickly access the spawn location of the orb when needed, and return to the pylon before the pylon is recaptured by Qadim. Some common classes for pylon kiters are Rifle Deadeye with Shadowstep and Condition Scourge with Sand Swell.
Fire Drops: Happen at 80% and 60% of Qadim's health phase changes. Players are lifted into the air for several seconds, then dropped back down, with a large lava AoE spawning a few seconds after dropping them the same size as the white AoE. The lava field does extremely heavy damage to any player that steps inside of them. This lava field also does damage to distortions after their defiance bars are broken, but not to Qadim.
Entropic Distortions aka Anomalies: Anomalies start spawning at 75% of Qadim's health at one of the 3 orb locations (see image above) and every 40 seconds after that. They slowly walk towards a friendly pylon and try to recapture it. While they are attempting to recapture the pylon, they will begin to gain stacks of  Flare-Up, and the pylon will no longer give boons to tethered players through Kinetic  Kinetic Abundance. If the anomaly get 10 stacks of  Flare-Up, it channels an explosion using Eclipsed Backlash and does massive damage. Anomalies are invulnerable until their defiance bar is broken. When they are CC'd, they can be damaged by players or by any fire drops (2 fire drops is enough to kill an anomaly within a single cc bar break).
Distortions spawn in clockwise order.
The northeast anomaly walks towards the north pylon by default. The northwest and south anomalies walk towards the southwest pylon by default.
When the pylon they would normally walk to is destroyed, unclaimed by a player (enemy pylon), or already has an Entropic Distortion channeling it, they walk to the nearest claimed pylon. Or, if no claimed pylons are immediately adjacent, to Qadim in the center. Channeling to Qadim also gives them stacks of  Flare-Up, and they will explode the same way dealing massive damage.
Starting at 40% of Qadim's health, anomalies start spawning every 30 seconds instead.
Breaking the defiance bar after the anomaly has already gained 10 stacks will not prevent the explosion from happening.
Distortions have a defiance bar of 400.
Other Core Mechanics
Chaos Called: An electric current (sometimes referred to as an electric shark) runs along the white lines of the arena, dealing damage and applying 2 Burning and  Weakness to any player it passes through.
Brandstorm Lightning: Random lightning attacks happen throughout the arena, marked by an orange aoe with thick border. They hit a few seconds later and deal moderate damage.
Ether Strikes: Qadim points an huge orange cone AoE in the direction of the tank. Everyone in the attack has small orbs barraging them from the sky after a short while, which deal damage and apply stacks of  Vulnerability.
Force of Havoc: Qadim will lay down a purple electric road in the direction of the tank periodically throughout the fight. The road remains on that position for a long period of time, and deals heavy damage anyone standing in them. If the road passes over any pylon, that pylon is instantly reclaimed by Qadim.
Rain of Chaos: Triple lightning AoE attack. Qadim will target a player for this attack - a yellow border appears around the player's screen, along with a small sound effect. Three lightning strikes of expanding sizes will target the player's location and damage anyone in their area of effect. It is recommended the player targeted run away from the group in the center to avoid dealing damage to everyone else. The last lightning attack will likely need to be dodged, blocked, etc. as it is slightly too large to get out of without a movement skill.
Caustic Chaos: Sometimes referred to as the arrow attack. Happens starting at 60%. Qadim tracks one player with an arrow and periodically throws 3 electric attacks at them. If the attack hits any player in its path, it explodes and deals damage in a very large radius around the point of collision while also applying Chaos Corrosion, which further increases damage taken from subsequent hits of Caustic Chaos. Players can evade or jump over the electric attack.
Raid Composition
Squads will need 3 pylon kiters and a tank at the very minimum. Rifle Deadeyes and Condition Scourges are the most common pylon kiters, though other classes will suffice too (Heal Scourge, Heal Tempest) so long as they have a way to self-sustain and quickly travel to and from the orb spawn locations. Condition DPS classes tend to perform best on this boss as the conditions tick whilst Qadim would otherwise unable to take damage, also useful are classes with boon strip such as Power Chrono, Condition Renegade and Condition Scourge as they allow you to reduce damage taken below 30% of Qadim's health by removing the  Retaliation he gains.

Overview
Pylon kiters will tether to their pylons and catch the orbs dropped by Qadim throughout the fight. The tank will carefully place the Force of Havoc purple ribbons while surviving Qadim's auto-attacks. Fire drops should be placed carefully to ensure maximum coverage of the Entropic Distortions. The rest of the squad should stay close to Qadim on the opposite side of the tank to avoid his attacks. Either the pylon kiters or another individual with ranged CC will need to break the Entropic Distortions' defiance bars while they are within (at least) two lava AoE's.

Start of Fight
The fight will be initiated when you cross the white circle that passes through the pylons. Qadim will be surrounded by a shield making him invulnerable and untargetable. CC-ing all three pylons will capture them and deactivate the shield. A player will need to remain tethered (i.e. the special action key is turned on) to each pylon, or else they will be reclaimed and need to be CC'd again. Qadim will become targetable and initiate an arena-wide knockback using Force of Retaliation after the pylons have been dealt with, indicated by an expanding orange circle. The knockback can be dodged, evaded, or mitigated with stability or aegis.

Phase 1 (100-80%)
Qadim is vulnerable between 100% to 80% as long as the pylons are tethered to at least one player each. The first player to enter Qadim's range with the tether Special Action key,  Flux Disruptor-  Flux Disruptor: Activate, toggled on will be the designated tank. Qadim's attack chain consists of 3 Ether Strikes cones, followed by a Force of Havoc road, then 3 cones, a road, and then the Rain of Chaos triple lightning attack. This attack chain then repeats.

The Ether Strikes cone has a massive range, and will target every player in its AoE with a barrage of attacks after a few seconds. These attacks deal damage and apply  Vulnerability, so it is recommended that the tank points the cone away from other players, including the pylon kiters.

The Force of Havoc road will appear in the direction that the tank is standing. This road lasts for a long time and deals extremely heavy damage, so it is suggested that the tank attempts to place this road in a direction between an orb spawn location and a pylon, see image above. Placing the road on an orb spawn leads to it dealing damage when a pylon kiter attempts to grab an orb, and placing the road on a pylon instantly recaptures the pylon for Qadim.

At 95%, 90%, and 85%, Qadim will launch an orb at one of the three spawn locations, rotating counterclockwise with each. Players (ideally the 3 pylon kiters) will need to catch the orbs and take them to the pylons to tether the orbs to the pylon.

Qadim sometimes gains a defiance bar and starts channeling one of the pylons. During this time, the pylon kiter will no longer gain boons from Kinetic  Kinetic Abundance, and will instead gain Enfeebled  Enfeebled Force,  Slow,  Weakness, and increasing stacks of  Vulnerability and  Torment every second. Players will need to break Qadim's defiance bar to interrupt his channel.

At 80%, all players will be lifted into the air for a few seconds, with a large AoE circle displayed underneath them, before being dropped onto the ground. The AoE circle will spawn a “lava” field after a few seconds. The fire drops deal extremely heavy damage to any player that steps inside of them, and they will all remain for the remaining of the fight, so it is highly recommended that players do not drop them on the pylons, the orb spawn locations, nor near Qadim. Most groups coordinate fire drop locations to be between pylons and orb drop locations, so that the resulting lava fields will kill any anomalies that are CC'd on top of them. Qadim will also regain his shield and reclaim the pylons at this time. The pylons will need to be CC'd again to let down his shield. Qadim will again become targetable and initiate the same arena-wide shockwave seen at the start of the 100% phase.

Phase 2 (80-60%)
Qadim's attack chain resets and the orb mechanic remain the same during the 80-60% phase, with orbs spawning at 75%, 70%, and 65% in the same order they appeared in the previous phase. Anomalies (Entropic Distortions) will also begin to spawn during this phase at the orb drop locations, and will start walking towards the pylons. Anomalies start spawning at 75% and will spawn again every 40 seconds afterwards in clockwise order. They will need to be CC'd and killed, or else they will channel to the pylons or Qadim and gain stacks of  Flare-Up. If the anomaly get 10 stacks of  Flare-Up, it explodes using Eclipsed Backlash and does massive damage.

At 60%, players will again be lifted up in the air with fire drops. Qadim regains his shield and reclaims the pylons, and after pylons are CC'd, he will again initiate the same arena-wide shockwave knockback seen before.

Phase 3 (60-40%)
Qadim's attacks, the orbs mechanic (at 55%, 50%, and 45%), and anomalies will continue throughout this phase. Starting in this phase, Qadim will also start using Caustic Chaos. Occasionally, Qadim points an arrow at one player and throws 3 electric attacks at them, with several seconds between each one. If a player is hit, it explodes and deals damage in a very large radius around the point of collision, so it is recommended that players evade the attack by either jumping, dodging, or blocking away from the group.

At 40% health, Qadim will rush towards the north pylon with Battering Blitz, knocking down and damaging any players in his path, before destroying the north pylon entirely. This spawns a large lava field on the former pylon, so it is necessary for the kiter at the north pylon to evade Qadim's attack and leave the pylon area before it is destroyed. Qadim will pause for a second, and is vulnerable to damage during this time. He will spin around and place his arms down, before doing a huge arena-wide shockwave about a second after his arms come down. This shockwave should be evaded or mitigated with stability, as it can easily send players flying into a lava field killing them. Alternatively, the shockwave reaches about the distance of the southern ball drop, so if players stand on that location or further away, they will not be affected by the shockwave.

After the knockback, Qadim will then teleport back to the middle and is vulnerable for a short time before doing a second shockwave. This reclaims the remaining two pylons and grants his invulnerability shield back. Players will need to CC the pylons to let down his shield again (this time, he does not do another shockwave after the pylons are CC'd).

Phase 4 (40-30%)
No more orbs will spawn after this point. Furthermore, anomalies will begin to spawn every 30 seconds instead. Qadim will continue to occasionally do his Caustic Chaos arrow attack. Qadim's bad tether to the tank will also have the ability to subtether to other nearby players, applying Guilt  Sapping Surge. This pulses vulnerability and reduces damage dealt by 25%.

At 30% health, Qadim will destroy the southwest pylon, and do an arena-wide shockwave knockback as at 40% health. After the knockback, he teleports to the center and does another shockwave which reclaims the southeast pylon and puts up his shield again. He becomes vulnerable again after the southeast pylon is CC'd.

Phase 5 (30-20%)
The burn phase from 30-20% health is similar to the previous phase, with Qadim having an additional "main" bad tether, which can also subtether to other nearby players. While having a bad tether to players, he also starts to gain  Retaliation and  Aegis every 6 seconds. As it is easy to kill oneself due to the  Retaliation, it is highly recommended that players quickly boonstrip Qadim as soon as possible when he gains boons.

At 20% health, Qadim destroys the final southeast pylon, doing the same arena-wide shockwave with knockback. After this knockback, he teleports to the center and does another shockwave.

Phase 6 (20-0%)
After his usual shockwave, Qadim will also do a very tiny knockback to all players which will remove everyone's Special Action Key. This knockback is different from the usual ones and cannot be mitigated with evades or aegis, only with stability. At this point, Qadim will instead fixate on the first player to walk in his range. The anomalies, arrow attack, and triple lightning attacks will continue throughout this burn phase.

At this point, Qadim can have "bad tethers" to 3 players within range, applying Guilt  Sapping Surge to each player. The debuff makes players gain stacks of  Vulnerability and reduces outgoing damage by 25%, and it subtethers onto up to 3 nearby players (as long as they don't have a main tether). As a result, it is recommended that the 3 players with bad tethers stay away from the rest of the group to avoid subtethering to them.

While having a bad tether to players, Qadim also gets  Might,  Fury,  Quickness, and  Alacrity every 6 seconds. This is in addition to (and on a separate timer from) the  Retaliation and  Aegis which started at 30%. Again, players should aim to boonstrip him as soon as possible. A distortion charging on him will count as a tether for purposes of him gaining boons.

Players should continue to deal with the regular mechanics while doing damage to Qadim. Note, without any pylons present the Entropic Distortions will instead walk to Qadim and channel to him with the same  Flare-Up as before. They will need to have their defiance bars broken and be killed to avoid their explosion and the subsequent damage. Advanced groups may instead choose to place the lava fields such that the anomalies still have to walk through them in order to avoid having to kill them by dps. Instead, as done in the previous phases, they can have their defiance bar broken using ranged CC and be killed by the lava fields.

Challenge Mote
Having the challenge mote active for Qadim the Peerless causes three large Titanic Twisters, as seen during Cardinal Sabir, to spawn on the outside of the arena (beyond the pylons) which will circle counter clockwise. Touching any of these twisters is instant death. Additionally, Qadim's Rain of Chaos attack will now cause any players hit by the attack to leave small lava AoE's for several seconds. These lava fields are the same as the large ones and deal high damage to anyone walking through them.

Later on in the fight when Qadim destroys the pylons at 40%, 30%, and 20% of his health small blue safety circles will appear at the south orb drop location. Players will need to be inside the circle to avoid being killed instantly by the now very lethal attack.  Stability is often extremely useful to avoid being knocked outside of the circle and killed. After this attack finishes one player will be lifted up into the air and unable to move or attack (UI interface will disappear and will be forced to watch the incoming meteor illusion). The rest of the players must collect 5 golden orbs which spawn randomly near Qadim the Peerless to enable the lifted player to use the special action skill  Touch of the  Unleash to destroy the "Meteor Illusion". Failure to collect the orbs and to use this special action key will result in a wipe.